---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Using the 1.0 to 2.0 config-translation Endpoint"
short-title: "Using the 1.0 to 2.0 config-translation Endpoint"
description: "Instructions for using the experimental Translator to translate CircleCI 1.0 configuration to the 2.0 format."
categories: [migration]
hide: true
order: 60
---

This document provides instructions for using the `config-translation` endpoint to generate a basic working CircleCI 2.0 configuration from your existing CircleCI 1.0 project for a limited set of languages:
* Ruby
* PHP
* Node.js
* iOS (partial: 1.0 code signing is not supported - use Fastlane instead)
* Java (partial)

The generated `config-translation` file includes comments to help you understand how to modify the configuration for use as the `.circleci/config.yml` in your CircleCI 2.0 project. 

**Warning: Do not use the generated configuration file in production without testing.** There are structures in 1.0 that cannot be reconciled in the 2.0 configuration, so it is important to put the generated configuration file on a branch, test it, and modify it before going to production. Results may vary significantly from your 1.0 results with the draft configuration generated with `config-translation`.

## Overview
The `config-translation` endpoint will help you generate a draft 2.0 configuration file from your CircleCI 1.0 project. Major differences exist between CircleCI 1.0 and 2.0 as follows:

* All configuration must be explicitly declared in a `.circleci/config.yml` file in your repository.
* CircleCI 2.0 introduces Workflows to orchestrate builds that are comprised of multiple jobs with steps. Workflows enable you to find failures faster by breaking up a build into multiple jobs. You must add a new stanza to your `config.yml` file to enable Workflows (a `workflows` stanza is **not** generated by `config-translation`). See [Orchestrating Workflows]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/workflows/) for instructions and examples.

The `config-translator` endpoint does **not** currently support translation of the `deploy` step of 1.0 builds, so you must also add a new job for deployment. See the [Deployment Integrations]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/deployment-integrations/) documentation for CircleCI 2.0 for details and examples.

## Using `config-translation`

1. To use the `config-translation`, use the following API endpoint passing the name of your CircleCI project building on 1.0. 

     `GET: /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project/config-translation`

     The above endpoint uses the build history of your 1.0 project to generate a `config-translation` file.

2. To use the `config-translation` from your browser when you are authenticated in `circleci.com` for a repository called `foo` in a GitHub org named `bar`, request this URL in your browser:

     `https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/github/bar/foo/config-translation`

3. To use the `config-translation` from your browser when you are **not** authenticated in circleci.com for a repository called `foo` in a GitHub org named `bar`, request the following URL and pass your `circle-token` directly in the query string. The following example calls this with `curl`, passes the `branch` to translate, and assumes your [CircleCI API token]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token) is in an environment variable called `CIRCLE_TOKEN`.

     ``` Shell
     curl "https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/github/bar/foo/config-translation?circle-token=$CIRCLE_TOKEN&branch=develop"
     ```
      The default is to use the default branch that is set in your VCS, typically `master`.
      
## See Also

 [Tips For Migrating from 1.0 to 2.0]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/migration/)

