jekyll/_cci2/artifactory.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: Upload to Artifactory
categories: [how-to]
description: How to upload Artifacts to Artifactory in CircleCI
version:
- Cloud
- Server v2.x
---

CircleCI supports uploading directly to Artifactory.

* TOC 
{:toc}

## Deploy

Artifactory has great documentation explaining how to leverage their [REST API](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Artifactory+REST+API).

We will use this space to highlight some sample projects showing how to best use CircleCI and Artifactory together.

Ensure that you have created your repository before starting this example, otherwise CircleCI won't have a place to store your dependencies.

## Artifactory plugins
Popular tools like Maven and Gradle have Artifactory plugins, and can deploy to Artifactory using their respective deploy commands.

- [Deploying with Maven](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Maven+Artifactory+Plugin)
- [Deploying with Gradle](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Gradle+Artifactory+Plugin)

## JFrog CLI
If you want to use the JFrog CLI, you can install it by adding the following to your `.circleci/config.yml` :

```
- run:
    name: Install jFrog CLI
    command: curl -fL https://getcli.jfrog.io | sh

```

Now we need to configure JFrog to use our credentials securely. We configure the client to use our `$ARTIFACTORY_URL`, along with our `$ARTIFACTORY_USER` and `$ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY`. These can be entered under `Project Settings->Environment Variables`

```
- run: ./jfrog rt config --url $ARTIFACTORY_URL --user $ARTIFACTORY_USER --apikey $ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY --interactive=false

```

If you would like to upload JAR files use the following example:

```
- run: ./jfrog rt u "multi*/*.jar" <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM --flat=false
```

If you would like to upload WAR files use the following example:

```
- run: ./jfrog rt u "multi*/*.war" <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM --flat=false
```

The full `.circleci/config.yml` file would look something like the following:

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  upload-artifact:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    working_directory: ~/repo
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: mvn dependency:go-offline
      - run:
          name: maven build
          command: |
            mvn clean install
      - run:
          name: Install jFrog CLI
          command: curl -fL https://getcli.jfrog.io | sh
      - run:
          name: Push to Artifactory
          command: |
            ./jfrog rt config --url $ARTIFACTORY_URL --user $ARTIFACTORY_USER --apikey $ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY --interactive=false
            ./jfrog rt u <path/to/artifact> <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM
            ./jfrog rt bce <name_you_give_to_build> $CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM  # collects all environment variables on the agent
            ./jfrog rt bp <name_you_give_to_build> $CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM  # attaches ^^ to the build in artifactory
```

## See also

{:.no_toc}

[Storing and Accessing Artifacts]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/artifacts/)

Commit message:

Update source file artifactory.md

jekyll/_cci2/artifactory.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: Upload to Artifactory
categories: [how-to]
description: How to upload Artifacts to Artifactory in CircleCI
version:
- Cloud
- Server v2.x
---

CircleCI supports uploading directly to Artifactory.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Deploy
{: #deploy }

Artifactory has great documentation explaining how to leverage their [REST API](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Artifactory+REST+API).

We will use this space to highlight some sample projects showing how to best use CircleCI and Artifactory together.

Ensure that you have created your repository before starting this example, otherwise CircleCI won't have a place to store your dependencies.

## Artifactory plugins
{: #artifactory-plugins }
Popular tools like Maven and Gradle have Artifactory plugins, and can deploy to Artifactory using their respective deploy commands.

- [Deploying with Maven](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Maven+Artifactory+Plugin)
- [Deploying with Gradle](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/RTF/Gradle+Artifactory+Plugin)

## JFrog CLI
{: #jfrog-cli }
If you want to use the [JFrog CLI](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/CLI/JFrog+CLI), you can install it by adding the following to your `.circleci/config.yml` :

```
- run:
    name: Install jFrog CLI
    command: curl -fL https://getcli.jfrog.io | sh

```

Now we need to configure JFrog to use our credentials securely. We configure the client to use our `$ARTIFACTORY_URL`, along with our `$ARTIFACTORY_USER` and `$ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY`. These can be entered under `Project Settings->Environment Variables`. Configure the CLI to use these settings:

```
- run: ./jfrog config add <named_server_config> --artifactory-url $ARTIFACTORY_URL --user $ARTIFACTORY_USER --apikey $ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY --interactive=false
```

If you would like to upload JAR files use the following example:

```
- run: ./jfrog rt u "multi*/*.jar" <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM --flat=false
```

If you would like to upload WAR files use the following example:

```
- run: ./jfrog rt u "multi*/*.war" <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM --flat=false
```

The full `.circleci/config.yml` file would look something like the following:

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  upload-artifact:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    working_directory: ~/repo
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: mvn dependency:go-offline
      - run:
          name: maven build
          command: |
            mvn clean install
      - run:
          name: Install JFrog CLI
          command: curl -fL https://getcli.jfrog.io | sh
      - run:
          name: Push to Artifactory
          command: |
            ./jfrog config add <named_server_config> --artifactory-url $ARTIFACTORY_URL --user $ARTIFACTORY_USER --apikey $ARTIFACTORY_APIKEY --interactive=false
            ./jfrog rt u <path/to/artifact> <artifactory_repo_name> --build-name=<name_you_give_to_build> --build-number=$CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM
            ./jfrog rt bce <name_you_give_to_build> $CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM  # collects all environment variables on the agent
            ./jfrog rt bp <name_you_give_to_build> $CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM  # attaches ^^ to the build in artifactory
```

## See also
{: #see-also }

{:.no_toc}

[Storing and Accessing Artifacts]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/artifacts/)
