jekyll/_cci2/docker-hub-pull-through-mirror.adoc, before:

---
version:
- Server v2.x
- Server Admin
---
= Setting Up Docker Hub Pull Through Mirror
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

This section describes how to configure a Docker Hub pull through registry mirror.

toc::[]

== Overview

Starting https://www.docker.com/blog/scaling-docker-to-serve-millions-more-developers-network-egress/[November 1, 2020], Docker Hub will impose rate limits for anonymous pulls based on the originating IP. To avoid service disruption, it is recommended to authenticate Docker pulls with Docker Hub. You can authenticate using build config (see https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/private-images/[Using Docker Authenticated Pulls]).

Alternatively, you can set up a Docker Hub pull through registry mirror pre-configured with Docker Hub account credentials. Using a pull through registry mirror is potentially simpler than making many build config modifications. It may also bring additional performance improvements since network roundtrips to Docker Hub are reduced.

These setup instructions are divided into three parts: Setting up a pull through cache registry, configuring Nomad clients to use the registry as a mirror, and configuring VM Service to use the registry as a mirror in machine executors and remote Docker jobs.

NOTE: The Services machine does not need to be configured to use the mirror. The Services machine does not pull Docker images regularly (it pulls images only upon initial setup and upgrade processes), and most images are pulled from Replicated. Hence it has few chances to hit the rate limit.

== Set up a pull through cache registry

This section covers setting up a pull through cache registry, which works as a mirror and reverse proxy for Docker Hub. Two types of pull through cache registry are presented: The elementary and easier-to-setup version using HTTP, and the more secure option using HTTPS. Either option is functional for most cases, but you might need the more secure option in certain cases.

=== Set up an elementary pull through cache registry (HTTP proxy for Docker Hub)

. *Set up a Docker Hub account*, which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.
+
TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+
Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to set up is `http://192.0.2.1`. The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
NOTE: Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 80:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  registry
----

. Finally, make sure that the TCP port 80 (i.e. HTTP) is open and accessible. For better security, we recommend that you only open the port to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients over HTTP.

=== Set up a secure pull through cache registry (HTTPS proxy for Docker Hub)

Under certain circumstances (especially when you are enabling https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/[BuildKit] on `machine` executors and remote Docker engines), your pull through cache registry needs to accept connections over HTTPS. These instructions cover setting up a pull through cache that listens for HTTPS connections.

. *Set up a Docker Hub account*, which will be used by the pull through cache registry to access Docker Hub.
+
TIP: Setting up a paid account can be a good option to ease the rate limiting further. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+
NOTE: *The server needs to be accessible by its hostname*. Namely, you must configure DNS accordingly so that the hostname (assume `your-mirror.example.com`) resolves to the IP address of the server correctly. In this guide we assume that the URL for the registry we are setting up is `https://your-mirror.example.com` (be aware that the URL scheme is `http**_s_**`, not `http`). The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

. *Obtain a TLS certificate for `your-mirror.example.com`* and *put the certificate and the private key into `/root/tls`* of the server.
+
NOTE: This guide assumes you are obtaining a certificate issued by a well-known CA, not a self-signed certificate. Use of self-signed certificates has NOT been tested.

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
[NOTE]
====
Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.

Replace `fullchain.pem` and `privkey.pem` with the filenames of your certificate and private key, respectively. *The certificate specified there must be correctly chained enough for tracing the certification path from the leaf to the root*.
====
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 443:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache-secure \
  -v /root/tls:/data/tls \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_CERTIFICATE=/data/tls/fullchain.pem \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/data/tls/privkey.pem \
  registry
----

. Finally, *make sure that the TCP port 443 (i.e. HTTPS) is open and accessible*. For better security, we recommend you to open the port only to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients and VMs for `machine`/`setup_remote_docker` jobs over HTTPS.

==== Plan for renewal of TLS certificates

You will need to renew TLS certificates periodically. These are the steps required to renew certificates.

. Update the certificate and the private key in `/root/tls`.

. Run `docker restart through-cache-secure`.

Technically, this can be automated. For example, if you are using Let's Encrypt for your certificates, you can setup a cron task that executes `certbot renew` and the steps above.

== Configure Nomad clients to use the pull through cache registry (run this for _each_ Nomad client)

. Run the command below to *configure the `registry-mirrors` option for the Docker daemon*.
+
NOTE: Replace `http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com` with the URL of your pull through cache registry accordingly.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq ".\"registry-mirrors\" = [\"http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com\"]" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. *Reload Docker daemon* to apply the configuration.
+
`sudo systemctl restart docker.service`

Now you should be able to see that Docker images from Docker Hub are downloaded through the cache registry. As a side effect, you should be able to see that private images for the user, which is configured for the cache registry, can be downloaded without explicit authentications.

== Configure VM Service to let Machine/Remote Docker VMs use the Pull Through Cache Registry

Follow the steps below on your services machine.

. Run the command below to *create a directory for your customization files*.
+
`sudo mkdir -p /etc/circleconfig/vm-service`

. *Populate a customization script* to be loaded by vm-service. *Add the script below to `/etc/circleconfig/vm-service/customizations`*.
+
NOTE: Replace `http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com` in `DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME` variable with the URL of your pull through cache registry accordingly.
+
[source,bash]
----
export JAVA_OPTS='-cp /resources:/service/app.jar'
export DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME="http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com"

mkdir -p /resources/ec2
cat > /resources/ec2/linux_cloud_init.yaml << EOD
#cloud-config
system_info:
  default_user:
    name: "%1\$s"
ssh_authorized_keys:
  - "%2\$s"
runcmd:
  - bash -c 'if [ ! -f /etc/docker/daemon.json ]; then mkdir -p /etc/docker; echo "{}" > /etc/docker/daemon.json; fi'
  - bash -c 'cat <<< \$(jq ".\"registry-mirrors\" = [\"$DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME\"]" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
  - systemctl restart docker.service
EOD
----

. *Restart VM Service* to apply the customization.
+
`sudo docker restart vm-service`

== How to revert the setup?

=== Disarm Nomad clients

Follow the steps below on _each_ Nomad client.

. *Remove `registry-mirrors` option in `/etc/docker/daemon.json`* by running the command below.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq "del(.\"registry-mirrors\")" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. Run `sudo systemctl restart docker.service` to apply the change.

=== Disarm VM Service

Follow the steps below on your services machine.

. *Void the `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable* by running the command below.
+
`echo 'unset JAVA_OPTS' | sudo tee -a /etc/circleconfig/vm-service/customizations`

. Run `sudo docker restart vm-service` to apply the change.

== Resources

* https://docs.docker.com/registry/recipes/mirror/[How to configure a pull through cache mirror]
* https://hub.docker.com/_/registry[Official Docker Registry Docker image]
* https://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/[How to configure official Docker Registry]

Commit message:

Added warning message to pay attention on private images registered for the machine account

jekyll/_cci2/docker-hub-pull-through-mirror.adoc, after:

---
version:
- Server v2.x
- Server Admin
---
= Setting Up Docker Hub Pull Through Mirror
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

This section describes how to configure a Docker Hub pull through registry mirror.

toc::[]

== Overview

Starting https://www.docker.com/blog/scaling-docker-to-serve-millions-more-developers-network-egress/[November 1, 2020], Docker Hub will impose rate limits for anonymous pulls based on the originating IP. To avoid service disruption, it is recommended to authenticate Docker pulls with Docker Hub. You can authenticate using build config (see https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/private-images/[Using Docker Authenticated Pulls]).

Alternatively, you can set up a Docker Hub pull through registry mirror pre-configured with Docker Hub account credentials. Using a pull through registry mirror is potentially simpler than making many build config modifications. It may also bring additional performance improvements since network roundtrips to Docker Hub are reduced.

These setup instructions are divided into three parts: Setting up a pull through cache registry, configuring Nomad clients to use the registry as a mirror, and configuring VM Service to use the registry as a mirror in machine executors and remote Docker jobs.

NOTE: The Services machine does not need to be configured to use the mirror. The Services machine does not pull Docker images regularly (it pulls images only upon initial setup and upgrade processes), and most images are pulled from Replicated. Hence it has few chances to hit the rate limit.

== Set up a pull through cache registry

This section covers setting up a pull through cache registry, which works as a mirror and reverse proxy for Docker Hub. Two types of pull through cache registry are presented: The elementary and easier-to-setup version using HTTP, and the more secure option using HTTPS. Either option is functional for most cases, but you might need the more secure option in certain cases.

=== Prerequisites: Set up a Docker Hub account

Before setting up a pull through cache registry, you need to *set up a Docker Hub account*. The account will be used by the pull through cache registry to authenticate itself with Docker Hub.

WARNING: We recommend to set up a dedicated account. Resources that the account has access will become accessible by all of the end users on your CircleCI Server. Especially, *if the account has private images registered on Docker Hub, those private images will become accessible by the all the users on your CircleCI Server*.

NOTE: While a free account can be used, setting up a paid account would be a good option to ease the rate limiting further: Paid accounts have an unlimitted allowance of image pulls. See also: https://www.docker.com/pricing.

=== Set up an elementary pull through cache registry (HTTP proxy for Docker Hub)

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+
Assuming that the IP address for this server is `192.0.2.1`, the URL for the registry to set up is `http://192.0.2.1`. The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
NOTE: Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 80:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  registry
----

. Finally, make sure that the TCP port 80 (i.e. HTTP) is open and accessible. For better security, we recommend that you only open the port to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients over HTTP.

=== Set up a secure pull through cache registry (HTTPS proxy for Docker Hub)

Under certain circumstances (especially when you are enabling https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/[BuildKit] on `machine` executors and remote Docker engines), your pull through cache registry needs to accept connections over HTTPS. These instructions cover setting up a pull through cache that listens for HTTPS connections.

. *Set up an independent Linux server* that has Docker installed.
+
We set up this registry as an independent server (i.e. outside of CircleCI boxes) to avoid load on this cache registry affecting other CircleCI Server services.
+
NOTE: *The server needs to be accessible by its hostname*. Namely, you must configure DNS accordingly so that the hostname (assume `your-mirror.example.com`) resolves to the IP address of the server correctly. In this guide we assume that the URL for the registry we are setting up is `https://your-mirror.example.com` (be aware that the URL scheme is `http**_s_**`, not `http`). The URL will be needed later to arm Nomad clients and the VM Service.

. *Obtain a TLS certificate for `your-mirror.example.com`* and *put the certificate and the private key into `/root/tls`* of the server.
+
NOTE: This guide assumes you are obtaining a certificate issued by a well-known CA, not a self-signed certificate. Use of self-signed certificates has NOT been tested.

. Run the command below to *start the registry*.
+
[NOTE]
====
Replace `DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME` and `DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the username for the Docker Hub account and the access token you obtained through https://hub.docker.com/settings/security, respectively.

Replace `fullchain.pem` and `privkey.pem` with the filenames of your certificate and private key, respectively. *The certificate specified there must be correctly chained enough for tracing the certification path from the leaf to the root*.
====
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker run \
  -d \
  -p 443:5000 \
  --restart=always \
  --name=through-cache-secure \
  -v /root/tls:/data/tls \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_REMOTEURL="https://registry-1.docker.io" \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_USERNAME=DOCKER_HUB_USERNAME \
  -e REGISTRY_PROXY_PASSWORD=DOCKER_HUB_ACCESS_TOKEN \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_CERTIFICATE=/data/tls/fullchain.pem \
  -e REGISTRY_HTTP_TLS_KEY=/data/tls/privkey.pem \
  registry
----

. Finally, *make sure that the TCP port 443 (i.e. HTTPS) is open and accessible*. For better security, we recommend you to open the port only to Nomad clients and VMs for `machine` executors and remote docker engines.
+
On AWS, for example, you will need to make sure that both Security Groups and the firewall at the OS level are configured correctly to accept connections from Nomad clients and VMs for `machine`/`setup_remote_docker` jobs over HTTPS.

==== Plan for renewal of TLS certificates

You will need to renew TLS certificates periodically. These are the steps required to renew certificates.

. Update the certificate and the private key in `/root/tls`.

. Run `docker restart through-cache-secure`.

Technically, this can be automated. For example, if you are using Let's Encrypt for your certificates, you can setup a cron task that executes `certbot renew` and the steps above.

== Configure Nomad clients to use the pull through cache registry (run this for _each_ Nomad client)

. Run the command below to *configure the `registry-mirrors` option for the Docker daemon*.
+
NOTE: Replace `http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com` with the URL of your pull through cache registry accordingly.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq ".\"registry-mirrors\" = [\"http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com\"]" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. *Reload Docker daemon* to apply the configuration.
+
`sudo systemctl restart docker.service`

== Configure VM Service to let Machine/Remote Docker VMs use the Pull Through Cache Registry

Follow the steps below on your services machine.

. Run the command below to *create a directory for your customization files*.
+
`sudo mkdir -p /etc/circleconfig/vm-service`

. *Populate a customization script* to be loaded by vm-service. *Add the script below to `/etc/circleconfig/vm-service/customizations`*.
+
NOTE: Replace `http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com` in `DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME` variable with the URL of your pull through cache registry accordingly.
+
[source,bash]
----
export JAVA_OPTS='-cp /resources:/service/app.jar'
export DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME="http://192.0.2.1.or.https.your-mirror.example.com"

mkdir -p /resources/ec2
cat > /resources/ec2/linux_cloud_init.yaml << EOD
#cloud-config
system_info:
  default_user:
    name: "%1\$s"
ssh_authorized_keys:
  - "%2\$s"
runcmd:
  - bash -c 'if [ ! -f /etc/docker/daemon.json ]; then mkdir -p /etc/docker; echo "{}" > /etc/docker/daemon.json; fi'
  - bash -c 'cat <<< \$(jq ".\"registry-mirrors\" = [\"$DOCKER_MIRROR_HOSTNAME\"]" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
  - systemctl restart docker.service
EOD
----

. *Restart VM Service* to apply the customization.
+
`sudo docker restart vm-service`

== How to revert the setup?

=== Disarm Nomad clients

Follow the steps below on _each_ Nomad client.

. *Remove `registry-mirrors` option in `/etc/docker/daemon.json`* by running the command below.
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo bash -c 'cat <<< $(jq "del(.\"registry-mirrors\")" /etc/docker/daemon.json) > /etc/docker/daemon.json'
----

. Run `sudo systemctl restart docker.service` to apply the change.

=== Disarm VM Service

Follow the steps below on your services machine.

. *Void the `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable* by running the command below.
+
`echo 'unset JAVA_OPTS' | sudo tee -a /etc/circleconfig/vm-service/customizations`

. Run `sudo docker restart vm-service` to apply the change.

== Resources

* https://docs.docker.com/registry/recipes/mirror/[How to configure a pull through cache mirror]
* https://hub.docker.com/_/registry[Official Docker Registry Docker image]
* https://docs.docker.com/registry/configuration/[How to configure official Docker Registry]
