jekyll/_cci2/gitlab-integration.adoc, before:

---
version:
- Cloud
redirect_from: /gitlab-vcs-support
---
= GitLab Support Preview Documentation
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:page-description: Learn how to integrate GitLab with CircleCI. 
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

[#overview]
== Overview

[IMPORTANT] 
====
Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview

We are excited to offer a preview of GitLab VCS support. While we are proud of what we have built so far, we are iterating to improve known performance issues.  At this time, we recommend not using GitLab for production of critical work.

Try it and tell us what you think. We would appreciate your feedback as we continue to iterate towards a seamless and stable experience.

https://ideas.circleci.com/gitlab-vcs-experience-feedback[Give feedback]
====

This document walks you through integrating a GitLab project with CircleCI. It introduces you to new concepts and ways to manage your CI/CD pipelines. In this document, we also outline some known issues as well as what we are working on for future releases.

[#step-one-sign-up]
== Step one - Sign up

GitLab support preview is open to both new and existing users of CircleCI. See the following two sections for directions for new and existing users.

=== New CircleCI users: Create a CircleCI account and create your first organization

. https://circleci.com/signup/[Sign up for CircleCI] using the **Sign up with Email** option (you will also create a password).

. After you set an email and password, you will be taken to a screen with the option to connect GitLab, GitHub, or Bitbucket. Click **Connect** for GitLab.
+
NOTE: If you choose to also connect your GitHub or Bitbucket accounts with your new account, your accounts will be merged based on the VCS account name that you used.

. The next page should include a "Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview" message. You will be prompted to create a new organization. Enter an organization name and click **Create Organization**.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-create-org.png[Create new organization]

After you successfully create a new organization, you will be taken to the web app dashboard. Follow the steps in <<#step-two-create-a-new-project,Step Two>> below to create a new project.

[#current-circleci-users-create-a-new-organization]
=== Current CircleCI users: Create a new organization

. Log in to the https://app.circleci.com/[CircleCI web app].

. Click on your organization name to open the organization switcher on the top left. Select **Create New Organization**.

. The next page should include a "Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview" message. Enter a unique name for your new organization.

. Click **Create Organization**.

This new organization allows you to manage users and GitLab projects within the organization. The organization will be under its own <<plan-free#,**Free plan**>> to start. You can upgrade to another plan later. This pricing plan is independent of any GitHub or Bitbucket organizations you have previously set up with your account.

Once you successfully create a new organization, you will be taken to the organization dashboard. Follow the steps in <<#step-two-create-a-new-project,Step Two>> below to set up a new GitLab project.

NOTE: Existing CircleCI users can also opt to sign up via email and password. If you choose to connect a VCS (GitHub or Bitbucket) account that you already have with your new email/password account, your accounts will be merged based on the VCS account name that you used.

[#step-two-create-new-project]
== Step two - Create a new project

You will need API access and write permissions on the repository you want to set up. Within GitLab, this is the “maintainer” role or higher.

If you use an access token as described in the steps below, you need to select the `api` and `write_permissions` scopes.

. In the CircleCI web app, navigate to **Projects**, then click the **Create Project** button.

. Enter a name for your project.

. Under **Code Source**, you have the option to connect to GitLab via **OAuth**, or using an **access token**. You must choose one.
+
NOTE: At this time, GitLab users on the Free tier should only use personal access tokens when setting up projects in CircleCI. See <<#gitlab-oauth-for-free-plans,Known issues>> below for more details.
+
**To connect to GitLab via OAuth:** click the **Connect** button. A browser window will open and direct you to GitLab's sign-in page. Once you have authenticated in GitLab, you will be redirected back to the Create New Project window in CircleCI.
+
NOTE: It may take a second OAuth attempt to successfully connnect.
+
You have successfully connected to GitLab if there is a green checkmark and a note that says "CircleCI will listen to your code source for changes." You should also see a dropdown list of your GitLab repositories.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-connect-oauth.png[Successful GitLab connection via OAuth]
+
**To connect using an access token:** enter the access token in the field, and click the **Connect** button. You can use either a personal access token, or a project access token. Note that project access tokens are only available for certain GitLab subscriptions or license tiers. For more information, refer to the https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html[Personal Access Tokens] and https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html[Project Access Tokens] documentation on GitLab.
+
You have successfully connected to GitLab if you see the "Access token successful" note. You should also see a dropdown list of your GitLab repositories. The repositories available to set up will depend on what is associated with the personal or project access token you use.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-connect-token.png[Successful GitLab connection using access token]
+
. Select the repository you wish to set up, then click **Create Project**.

Behind the scenes, CircleCI is registering a webhook within your GitLab repository. You may verify this once you have successfully created the project by navigating to your repository's Settings > Webhooks page.

[#step-three-trigger-pipeline]
== Step three - Trigger a project pipeline in CircleCI

At this time, setting up a new GitLab project does not automatically trigger a pipeline. Adding or editing a CircleCI configuration within the CircleCI web app is also not currently available.

. If you have not already done so, create a `.circleci` directory at the root of your GitLab repository, and add a `config.yml` file in that directory.
+
NOTE: If you are new to CircleCI, you may wish to get started with our <<hello-world#echo-hello-world-on-linux#,Hello World>> example, or take a look at some of our <<sample-config#,sample configurations>>. The <<configuration-reference#,Configuring CircleCI>> document is a full reference to the keys used in a `.circleci/config.yml` file.

. Push changes to your GitLab repository. You should see a pipeline running for the project within the CircleCI web app.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-successful-pipeline.png[Successful pipeline run]

[#project-settings]
== Project settings

Unlike GitHub or Bitbucket projects, the GitLab support preview introduces the concept of "standalone" projects that are not specific to a VCS.

A project can have one or more **configurations** which are pipeline definitions, including, but not limited to, a `.circleci/config.yml` file in your repo.

A project can have one or more **triggers**, which are events from a source of change, including, but not limited to, a VCS. A trigger determines which configuration it should use to start a pipeline.

The following settings are found by clicking the **Project Settings** button within your project. At this time, both configurations and triggers are limited to GitLab. To read more about other settings you can enable for your projects, refer to the <<settings#,Settings>> document.

[#project-settings-active-development]
=== Project settings in active development

[#configuration]
==== Configuration

Currently, you can add or delete a configuration source for your project. If you followed the steps above to connect GitLab, a GitLab configuration source has been automatically added for you. Once you define a configuration source, you can set up a trigger that points to that configuration.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-configuration.png[Configuration setup page]

[#triggers]
==== Triggers

Add a trigger that specifies which configuration source starts a pipeline. If you followed the steps above to connect GitLab, a trigger set with GitLab as the configuration source has been automatically added for you.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-triggers.png[Trigger setup page]

Triggers and trigger rules determine how CircleCI handles events from the source of change, in this case, GitLab.

When a trigger is created, CircleCI registers a webhook with GitLab. Push events from GitLab are sent to CircleCI. CircleCI then uses the event data to determine _if_ a pipeline should run, and if so, _which_ pipeline should be run.

In addition to a configuration source, each trigger includes the webhook URL, and in this scenario, a CircleCI-created GitLab token. The webhook URL and GitLab token are used to securely register the webhook within GitLab in order to receive push events from your GitLab repo.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-edit-trigger.png[Trigger details]

**Trigger filters** allow you to determine when a trigger should initiate a build based on the parameters provided by Gitlab’s webhook. CircleCI provides some common options, for example, only build on merge requests, but you can also build your own rules using the customer filter option. For example, a custom filter would allow you to only build on a specific branch or user.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-customize-triggers.png[Trigger details]

NOTE: Please also note the differences in functionality for the project settings below in the GitLab preview.

[#project-settings-advanced]
=== **Advanced**

- You can enable dynamic configuration using setup workflows in CircleCI. To learn about dynamic configuration, read the <<dynamic-config#,Dynamic Configuration>> guide.
- At this time, the **Free and Open Source** setting is not currently supported, but there are plans to make this available in the future.
- At this time, auto-cancel redundant workflows is not supported. Refer to the <<skip-build#auto-cancelling,Auto cancelling section>> of the Skip or cancel jobs and workflows document for more details.

[#project-settings-ssh-keys]
=== **SSH Keys**

When creating a project, an SSH key is created which is used to checkout code from your repo. Each configuration you create generates a new SSH key to access the code in the repo associated with that configuration. At this time, only **Additional SSH Keys** are applicable to GitLab projects. For more information on SSH keys, please visit the <<add-ssh-key#,Adding an SSH Key to CircleCI>> document.

[#organization-settings]
== Organization settings

The GitLab preview also introduces the concept of "standalone" organizations, which are not tied to a VCS.

A standalone organization allows for managing users and projects independent of the VCS. Organizations as well as users are considered CircleCI organizations and users, with their own roles and permissions that do not rely on those defined in a VCS.

To manage settings on the organization level, click the **Organization Settings** button within the CircleCI web app. More general information on organization settings in CircleCI can be found in the <<settings#,Settings>> document.

[#organization-settings-people]
=== People 

Add or remove users, and manage user roles for the organization as well as user invites.

NOTE: You must have at least one org administrator. If you try to remove the last org administrator, you will get an error.

[#inviting-your-first-team-members]
==== Inviting your first team members

Upon creating a new organization, you also have the option to invite team members from the dashboard. Alternatively, you may invite team members from the **People** section within **Organization Settings**.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-org-settings-people.png[People section under Organization Settings]

. Click the **Invite** button.

. Enter the email address of the user you wish to invite, and select the appropriate role. You may enter multiple addresses at once, if you wish to assign these users the same role.
+
Organization administrator as well as organization contributor roles are currently available. Project-specific roles will be coming soon. For more information on roles and permissions, refer to the <<#about-roles-and-permissions,next section>>.

. An invited user will receive an email notification (sent from `noreply@circleci.com`), containing a link to accept the invite.
+
If they do not currently have a CircleCI account, they will need to sign up. If they already have a CircleCI account, they are added to the organization, and if they are logged in, they will see the organization as an option in the organization switcher in the top left corner of the web app.

[#about-roles-and-permissions]
==== About roles and permissions

CircleCI users have different abilities depending on assigned roles in a particular organization.

Your CircleCI user roles and permissions are not derived from your VCS permissions, and they do not allow you to bypass permissions in the VCS. For example, you may be an _Organization Administrator_ within CircleCI, which gives you access to view and modify organization and project settings _within your CircleCI organization_. However, you will not be able to edit a project’s `.circleci/config.yml` hosted in your VCS without your user also having the write permissions _within that VCS's repository project_. Your CircleCI user’s VCS permissions are determined by its associated GitLab identity.

At this time, your GitLab identity can be managed through your CircleCI connection when managing triggers and configuration.

[#permissions-matrix]
===== Permissions Matrix

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=4*, options="header"]
|===
| ACTIONS

3+^| ORGANIZATION ROLES

|
| *Admin*
| *Contributor*
| *Viewer*

| *Organization*
|
|
|

^| Manage org settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View org settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

^| Manage plan
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View plan
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Insights*
|
|
|

^| View org insights
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Runner*
|
|
|

^| Manage runners
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View runners
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Projects*
|
|
|

^| Manage project settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View projects
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Contexts*
|
|
|

^| Manage contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

^| Use contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|

| *Orbs*
|
|
|

^| Manage namespace
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Update orb categorizations
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Create/update orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Publish orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Publish dev orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|

^| View private orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
|===

[#coming-soon]
== Coming soon

The following sections are features of CircleCI which are not currently fully supported for GitLab. These features are planned for future releases.

[#account-integrations]
=== Account integrations

There is currently no method to manage the connection with GitLab outside of the project setup, trigger, and configuration settings. CircleCI is working on enabling users to manage their users’ GitLab identity as part of their user profile's account integration settings.

[#project-roles]
=== Project roles

Provider roles give even greater control over which users have access to which projects within an organization. This enables teams to have limited access to only their projects, while managers and others can have broader organizational access.

[#auto-cancel-redundant-workflows]
=== Auto-cancel redundant workflows

Auto-cancel redundant workflows is not currently supported. It is often used to remove noise from the pipeline page and lower the time to feedback for a commit. Refer to the xref:/skip-build#auto-cancelling[Skip or cancel jobs and workflows] page for more details.

[#restricted-access-to-contexts]
=== Restricted access to contexts

Restricted access to contexts is not currently supported. Any users that can trigger pipelines from the source can use contexts. We will be offering multiple methods to restrict contexts in the future.

If you would like more information about using contexts within CircleCI, visit the xref:/contexts#[Using contexts] page.

[#passing-secrets-to-forked-pull-requests]
=== Passing secrets to forked pull requests

Passing secrets to forked pull requests is not a currently supported option for GitLab integrations.

[#stop-building]
=== Stop building

GitLab integrations do not currently support the **Stop Building** option that can normally be found in **Project settings**. The recommendation is to delete your webhooks in your GitLab repo if you no longer want a CircleCI pipeline to run.

[#ssh-rerun]
=== SSH rerun

Support for SSH rerun will only work if your user account has a Bitbucket or GitHub integration in addition to GitLab. Your user account's Bitbucket or GitHub SSH keys can be used for SSH reruns with GitLab. CircleCI will be adding functionality to allow users to manage SSH keys so SSH reruns are possible. SSH reruns do not get passed context secrets. CircleCI is working on providing administrators with greater control over the use of secrets and SSH reruns.

[#additional-ssh-keys-only]
=== Additional SSH keys only

Deploy keys and user keys are not used by GitLab integrations. GitLab keys are stored in **Project Settings > Additional SSH Keys**. However, CircleCI does not recommend manually managing your SSH keys for code checkout. Instead, use the **Set Up Project** option, or **Project Settings > Configuration**, to maintain connections to your repository.

[#free-and-open-source-setting]
=== Free and open source setting

Open source plans are not currently available to GitLab customers. CircleCI will keep the open source community up to date as work continues to support this.

[#plans-and-usage]
=== Plans and usage

- Plans pages display the organization UUID instead of the organization name in the top left corner.
- Usage pages do not include the GitLab project name under **Projects**.

[#gitlab-free-plans]
=== GitLab free plans

If your GitLab account supports it, CircleCI will create a GitLab project token whenever possible when setting up a project. If you are on a Free GitLab plan it is not possible to create a project token, so CircleCI will require and use a personal API token. Please note, if you are on a paid plan and enter a personal API token during project setup, CircleCI will use your personal API token to create a project token.

Commit message:

Fix plan pages section note

jekyll/_cci2/gitlab-integration.adoc, after:

---
version:
- Cloud
redirect_from: /gitlab-vcs-support
---
= GitLab Support Preview Documentation
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:page-description: Learn how to integrate GitLab with CircleCI. 
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

[#overview]
== Overview

[IMPORTANT] 
====
Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview

We are excited to offer a preview of GitLab VCS support. While we are proud of what we have built so far, we are iterating to improve known performance issues.  At this time, we recommend not using GitLab for production of critical work.

Try it and tell us what you think. We would appreciate your feedback as we continue to iterate towards a seamless and stable experience.

https://ideas.circleci.com/gitlab-vcs-experience-feedback[Give feedback]
====

This document walks you through integrating a GitLab project with CircleCI. It introduces you to new concepts and ways to manage your CI/CD pipelines. In this document, we also outline some known issues as well as what we are working on for future releases.

[#step-one-sign-up]
== Step one - Sign up

GitLab support preview is open to both new and existing users of CircleCI. See the following two sections for directions for new and existing users.

=== New CircleCI users: Create a CircleCI account and create your first organization

. https://circleci.com/signup/[Sign up for CircleCI] using the **Sign up with Email** option (you will also create a password).

. After you set an email and password, you will be taken to a screen with the option to connect GitLab, GitHub, or Bitbucket. Click **Connect** for GitLab.
+
NOTE: If you choose to also connect your GitHub or Bitbucket accounts with your new account, your accounts will be merged based on the VCS account name that you used.

. The next page should include a "Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview" message. You will be prompted to create a new organization. Enter an organization name and click **Create Organization**.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-create-org.png[Create new organization]

After you successfully create a new organization, you will be taken to the web app dashboard. Follow the steps in <<#step-two-create-a-new-project,Step Two>> below to create a new project.

[#current-circleci-users-create-a-new-organization]
=== Current CircleCI users: Create a new organization

. Log in to the https://app.circleci.com/[CircleCI web app].

. Click on your organization name to open the organization switcher on the top left. Select **Create New Organization**.

. The next page should include a "Welcome to the GitLab VCS Support Preview" message. Enter a unique name for your new organization.

. Click **Create Organization**.

This new organization allows you to manage users and GitLab projects within the organization. The organization will be under its own <<plan-free#,**Free plan**>> to start. You can upgrade to another plan later. This pricing plan is independent of any GitHub or Bitbucket organizations you have previously set up with your account.

Once you successfully create a new organization, you will be taken to the organization dashboard. Follow the steps in <<#step-two-create-a-new-project,Step Two>> below to set up a new GitLab project.

NOTE: Existing CircleCI users can also opt to sign up via email and password. If you choose to connect a VCS (GitHub or Bitbucket) account that you already have with your new email/password account, your accounts will be merged based on the VCS account name that you used.

[#step-two-create-new-project]
== Step two - Create a new project

You will need API access and write permissions on the repository you want to set up. Within GitLab, this is the “maintainer” role or higher.

If you use an access token as described in the steps below, you need to select the `api` and `write_permissions` scopes.

. In the CircleCI web app, navigate to **Projects**, then click the **Create Project** button.

. Enter a name for your project.

. Under **Code Source**, you have the option to connect to GitLab via **OAuth**, or using an **access token**. You must choose one.
+
NOTE: At this time, GitLab users on the Free tier should only use personal access tokens when setting up projects in CircleCI. See <<#gitlab-oauth-for-free-plans,Known issues>> below for more details.
+
**To connect to GitLab via OAuth:** click the **Connect** button. A browser window will open and direct you to GitLab's sign-in page. Once you have authenticated in GitLab, you will be redirected back to the Create New Project window in CircleCI.
+
NOTE: It may take a second OAuth attempt to successfully connnect.
+
You have successfully connected to GitLab if there is a green checkmark and a note that says "CircleCI will listen to your code source for changes." You should also see a dropdown list of your GitLab repositories.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-connect-oauth.png[Successful GitLab connection via OAuth]
+
**To connect using an access token:** enter the access token in the field, and click the **Connect** button. You can use either a personal access token, or a project access token. Note that project access tokens are only available for certain GitLab subscriptions or license tiers. For more information, refer to the https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html[Personal Access Tokens] and https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html[Project Access Tokens] documentation on GitLab.
+
You have successfully connected to GitLab if you see the "Access token successful" note. You should also see a dropdown list of your GitLab repositories. The repositories available to set up will depend on what is associated with the personal or project access token you use.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-connect-token.png[Successful GitLab connection using access token]
+
. Select the repository you wish to set up, then click **Create Project**.

Behind the scenes, CircleCI is registering a webhook within your GitLab repository. You may verify this once you have successfully created the project by navigating to your repository's Settings > Webhooks page.

[#step-three-trigger-pipeline]
== Step three - Trigger a project pipeline in CircleCI

At this time, setting up a new GitLab project does not automatically trigger a pipeline. Adding or editing a CircleCI configuration within the CircleCI web app is also not currently available.

. If you have not already done so, create a `.circleci` directory at the root of your GitLab repository, and add a `config.yml` file in that directory.
+
NOTE: If you are new to CircleCI, you may wish to get started with our <<hello-world#echo-hello-world-on-linux#,Hello World>> example, or take a look at some of our <<sample-config#,sample configurations>>. The <<configuration-reference#,Configuring CircleCI>> document is a full reference to the keys used in a `.circleci/config.yml` file.

. Push changes to your GitLab repository. You should see a pipeline running for the project within the CircleCI web app.
+
image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-successful-pipeline.png[Successful pipeline run]

[#project-settings]
== Project settings

Unlike GitHub or Bitbucket projects, the GitLab support preview introduces the concept of "standalone" projects that are not specific to a VCS.

A project can have one or more **configurations** which are pipeline definitions, including, but not limited to, a `.circleci/config.yml` file in your repo.

A project can have one or more **triggers**, which are events from a source of change, including, but not limited to, a VCS. A trigger determines which configuration it should use to start a pipeline.

The following settings are found by clicking the **Project Settings** button within your project. At this time, both configurations and triggers are limited to GitLab. To read more about other settings you can enable for your projects, refer to the <<settings#,Settings>> document.

[#project-settings-active-development]
=== Project settings in active development

[#configuration]
==== Configuration

Currently, you can add or delete a configuration source for your project. If you followed the steps above to connect GitLab, a GitLab configuration source has been automatically added for you. Once you define a configuration source, you can set up a trigger that points to that configuration.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-configuration.png[Configuration setup page]

[#triggers]
==== Triggers

Add a trigger that specifies which configuration source starts a pipeline. If you followed the steps above to connect GitLab, a trigger set with GitLab as the configuration source has been automatically added for you.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-triggers.png[Trigger setup page]

Triggers and trigger rules determine how CircleCI handles events from the source of change, in this case, GitLab.

When a trigger is created, CircleCI registers a webhook with GitLab. Push events from GitLab are sent to CircleCI. CircleCI then uses the event data to determine _if_ a pipeline should run, and if so, _which_ pipeline should be run.

In addition to a configuration source, each trigger includes the webhook URL, and in this scenario, a CircleCI-created GitLab token. The webhook URL and GitLab token are used to securely register the webhook within GitLab in order to receive push events from your GitLab repo.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-edit-trigger.png[Trigger details]

**Trigger filters** allow you to determine when a trigger should initiate a build based on the parameters provided by Gitlab’s webhook. CircleCI provides some common options, for example, only build on merge requests, but you can also build your own rules using the customer filter option. For example, a custom filter would allow you to only build on a specific branch or user.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-customize-triggers.png[Trigger details]

NOTE: Please also note the differences in functionality for the project settings below in the GitLab preview.

[#project-settings-advanced]
=== **Advanced**

- You can enable dynamic configuration using setup workflows in CircleCI. To learn about dynamic configuration, read the <<dynamic-config#,Dynamic Configuration>> guide.
- At this time, the **Free and Open Source** setting is not currently supported, but there are plans to make this available in the future.
- At this time, auto-cancel redundant workflows is not supported. Refer to the <<skip-build#auto-cancelling,Auto cancelling section>> of the Skip or cancel jobs and workflows document for more details.

[#project-settings-ssh-keys]
=== **SSH Keys**

When creating a project, an SSH key is created which is used to checkout code from your repo. Each configuration you create generates a new SSH key to access the code in the repo associated with that configuration. At this time, only **Additional SSH Keys** are applicable to GitLab projects. For more information on SSH keys, please visit the <<add-ssh-key#,Adding an SSH Key to CircleCI>> document.

[#organization-settings]
== Organization settings

The GitLab preview also introduces the concept of "standalone" organizations, which are not tied to a VCS.

A standalone organization allows for managing users and projects independent of the VCS. Organizations as well as users are considered CircleCI organizations and users, with their own roles and permissions that do not rely on those defined in a VCS.

To manage settings on the organization level, click the **Organization Settings** button within the CircleCI web app. More general information on organization settings in CircleCI can be found in the <<settings#,Settings>> document.

[#organization-settings-people]
=== People 

Add or remove users, and manage user roles for the organization as well as user invites.

NOTE: You must have at least one org administrator. If you try to remove the last org administrator, you will get an error.

[#inviting-your-first-team-members]
==== Inviting your first team members

Upon creating a new organization, you also have the option to invite team members from the dashboard. Alternatively, you may invite team members from the **People** section within **Organization Settings**.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-org-settings-people.png[People section under Organization Settings]

. Click the **Invite** button.

. Enter the email address of the user you wish to invite, and select the appropriate role. You may enter multiple addresses at once, if you wish to assign these users the same role.
+
Organization administrator as well as organization contributor roles are currently available. Project-specific roles will be coming soon. For more information on roles and permissions, refer to the <<#about-roles-and-permissions,next section>>.

. An invited user will receive an email notification (sent from `noreply@circleci.com`), containing a link to accept the invite.
+
If they do not currently have a CircleCI account, they will need to sign up. If they already have a CircleCI account, they are added to the organization, and if they are logged in, they will see the organization as an option in the organization switcher in the top left corner of the web app.

[#about-roles-and-permissions]
==== About roles and permissions

CircleCI users have different abilities depending on assigned roles in a particular organization.

Your CircleCI user roles and permissions are not derived from your VCS permissions, and they do not allow you to bypass permissions in the VCS. For example, you may be an _Organization Administrator_ within CircleCI, which gives you access to view and modify organization and project settings _within your CircleCI organization_. However, you will not be able to edit a project’s `.circleci/config.yml` hosted in your VCS without your user also having the write permissions _within that VCS's repository project_. Your CircleCI user’s VCS permissions are determined by its associated GitLab identity.

At this time, your GitLab identity can be managed through your CircleCI connection when managing triggers and configuration.

[#permissions-matrix]
===== Permissions Matrix

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=4*, options="header"]
|===
| ACTIONS

3+^| ORGANIZATION ROLES

|
| *Admin*
| *Contributor*
| *Viewer*

| *Organization*
|
|
|

^| Manage org settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View org settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

^| Manage plan
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View plan
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Insights*
|
|
|

^| View org insights
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Runner*
|
|
|

^| Manage runners
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View runners
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Projects*
|
|
|

^| Manage project settings
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View projects
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

| *Contexts*
|
|
|

^| Manage contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| View contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]

^| Use contexts
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|

| *Orbs*
|
|
|

^| Manage namespace
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Update orb categorizations
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Create/update orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Publish orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|
^|

^| Publish dev orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^|

^| View private orb
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
^| icon:check-circle[]
|===

[#coming-soon]
== Coming soon

The following sections are features of CircleCI which are not currently fully supported for GitLab. These features are planned for future releases.

[#account-integrations]
=== Account integrations

There is currently no method to manage the connection with GitLab outside of the project setup, trigger, and configuration settings. CircleCI is working on enabling users to manage their users’ GitLab identity as part of their user profile's account integration settings.

[#project-roles]
=== Project roles

Provider roles give even greater control over which users have access to which projects within an organization. This enables teams to have limited access to only their projects, while managers and others can have broader organizational access.

[#auto-cancel-redundant-workflows]
=== Auto-cancel redundant workflows

Auto-cancel redundant workflows is not currently supported. It is often used to remove noise from the pipeline page and lower the time to feedback for a commit. Refer to the xref:/skip-build#auto-cancelling[Skip or cancel jobs and workflows] page for more details.

[#restricted-access-to-contexts]
=== Restricted access to contexts

Restricted access to contexts is not currently supported. Any users that can trigger pipelines from the source can use contexts. We will be offering multiple methods to restrict contexts in the future.

If you would like more information about using contexts within CircleCI, visit the xref:/contexts#[Using contexts] page.

[#passing-secrets-to-forked-pull-requests]
=== Passing secrets to forked pull requests

Passing secrets to forked pull requests is not a currently supported option for GitLab integrations.

[#stop-building]
=== Stop building

GitLab integrations do not currently support the **Stop Building** option that can normally be found in **Project settings**. The recommendation is to delete your webhooks in your GitLab repo if you no longer want a CircleCI pipeline to run.

[#ssh-rerun]
=== SSH rerun

Support for SSH rerun will only work if your user account has a Bitbucket or GitHub integration in addition to GitLab. Your user account's Bitbucket or GitHub SSH keys can be used for SSH reruns with GitLab. CircleCI will be adding functionality to allow users to manage SSH keys so SSH reruns are possible. SSH reruns do not get passed context secrets. CircleCI is working on providing administrators with greater control over the use of secrets and SSH reruns.

[#additional-ssh-keys-only]
=== Additional SSH keys only

Deploy keys and user keys are not used by GitLab integrations. GitLab keys are stored in **Project Settings > Additional SSH Keys**. However, CircleCI does not recommend manually managing your SSH keys for code checkout. Instead, use the **Set Up Project** option, or **Project Settings > Configuration**, to maintain connections to your repository.

[#free-and-open-source-setting]
=== Free and open source setting

Open source plans are not currently available to GitLab customers. CircleCI will keep the open source community up to date as work continues to support this.

[#plan-pages-ui]
=== Plan pages UI

The plan pages currently display the organization UUID instead of the organization name in the top left corner when viewing the **Plan** section.

[#gitlab-free-plans]
=== GitLab free plans

If your GitLab account supports it, CircleCI will create a GitLab project token whenever possible when setting up a project. If you are on a Free GitLab plan it is not possible to create a project token, so CircleCI will require and use a personal API token. Please note, if you are on a paid plan and enter a personal API token during project setup, CircleCI will use your personal API token to create a project token.
