jekyll/_cci2/parallelism-faster-jobs.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Running Tests in Parallel"
short-title: "Running Tests in Parallel"
description: "How to run tests in parallel"
categories: [optimization]
order: 60
version:
- Cloud
- Server v2.x
---

The more tests your project has, the longer it will take for them to complete on a single machine. To reduce this time, you can run tests in parallel by spreading them across multiple separate executors. This requires specifying a parallelism level to define how many separate executors get spun up for the test job. Then, you can use either the CircleCI CLI to split test files, or use environment variables to configure each parallel machine individually.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Specifying a job's parallelism level

Test suites are conventionally defined at the [job]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#sample-configuration-with-concurrent-jobs) level in your `.circleci/config.yml` file.
The `parallelism` key specifies how many independent executors will be set up to run the steps of a job.

To run a job's steps in parallel, set the `parallelism` key to a value greater than 1.

```yaml
# ~/.circleci/config.yml
version: 2
jobs:
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    parallelism: 4
```

![Parallelism]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/executor_types_plus_parallelism.png)

For more information,
see the [Configuring CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#parallelism) document.

## Using the CircleCI CLI to split tests

CircleCI supports automatic test allocation across your containers. The allocation is filename or classname based, depending on the requirements of the test-runner you are using. It requires the CircleCI CLI, which is automatically injected into your build at run-time.

To install the CLI locally, see the [Using the CircleCI Local CLI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/local-cli/) document.

### Splitting test files
{:.no_toc}

The CLI supports splitting tests across machines when running parallel jobs. This is achieved by passing a list of either files or classnames, whichever your test-runner requires at the command line, to the `circleci tests split` command.

#### Globbing test files
{:.no_toc}

To assist in defining your test suite, the CLI supports globbing test files using the following patterns:

- `*` matches any sequence of characters (excluding path separators)
- `**` matches any sequence of characters (including path separators)
- `?` matches any single character (excluding path separators)
- `[abc]` matches any character (excluding path separators) against characters in brackets
- `{foo,bar,...}` matches a sequence of characters, if any of the alternatives in braces matches

To glob test files, pass one or more patterns to the `circleci tests glob` command.

    circleci tests glob "tests/unit/*.java" "tests/functional/*.java"

To check the results of pattern-matching, use the `echo` command.

```yaml
# ~/.circleci/config.yml
version: 2
jobs:
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    parallelism: 4
    steps:
      - run:
          command: |
            echo $(circleci tests glob "foo/**/*" "bar/**/*")
            circleci tests glob "foo/**/*" "bar/**/*" | xargs -n 1 echo
```

#### Splitting by timing data

The best way to optimize your test suite across a set of parallel executors is to split your tests using timing data. This will ensure the tests are split in the most even way, leading to a shorter overall test time.

![Test Splitting]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/test_splitting.png)

On each successful run of a test suite, CircleCI saves timings data from the directory specified by the path in the [`store_test_results`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_test_results) step. This timings data consists of how long each test took to complete per filename or classname, depending on the language you are using.

Note: If you do not use `store_test_results`, there will be no timing data available for splitting your tests.

To split by test timings, use the `--split-by` flag with the `timings` split type. The available timings data will then be analyzed and your tests will be split across your parallel-running containers as evenly as possible leading to the fastest possible test run time

    circleci tests glob "**/*.go" | circleci tests split --split-by=timings

The CLI expects both filenames and classnames to be present in the timing data produced by the testing suite. By default, splitting defaults to filename, but you can specify classnames by using the `--timings-type` flag.

    cat my_java_test_classnames | circleci tests split --split-by=timings --timings-type=classname

If you need to manually store and retrieve timing data, use the [`store_artifacts`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_artifacts) step.

#### Splitting by name
{:.no_toc}

By default, if you don't specify a method using the `--split-by` flag, `circleci tests split` expects a list of filenames/classnames and splits tests alphabetically by test name. There are a few ways to provide this list:

Create a text file with test filenames.

    circleci tests split test_filenames.txt

Provide a path to the test files.

    circleci tests split < /path/to/items/to/split

Or pipe a glob of test files.

    circleci tests glob "test/**/*.java" | circleci tests split

The CLI looks up the number of available containers, along with the current container index. Then, it uses deterministic splitting algorithms to split the test files across all available containers.

By default, the number of containers is specified by the `parallelism` key. You can manually set this by using the `--total` flag.

    circleci tests split --total=4 test_filenames.txt

Similarly, the current container index is automatically picked up from environment variables, but can be manually set by using the `--index` flag.

    circleci tests split --index=0 test_filenames.txt

#### Splitting by filesize
{:.no_toc}

When provided with filepaths, the CLI can also split by filesize. To do this, use the `--split-by` flag with the `filesize` split type.

    circleci tests glob "**/*.go" | circleci tests split --split-by=filesize

## Using environment variables to split tests

For full control over parallelism, CircleCI provides two environment variables that you can use in lieu of the CLI to configure each container individually.
`CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL` is the total number of parallel containers being used to run your job, and `CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX` is the index of the specific container that is currently running.
See the [built-in environment variable documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#built-in-environment-variables) for more details.

## Running split tests

Globbing and splitting tests does not actually run your tests. To combine test grouping with test execution, consider saving the grouped tests to a file, then passing this file to your test runner.

```bash
circleci tests glob "test/**/*.rb" | circleci tests split > /tmp/tests-to-run
bundle exec rspec $(cat /tmp/tests-to-run)
```

The contents of the file `/tmp/tests-to-run` will be different in each container, based on `$CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX` and `$CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL`.

### Video: troubleshooting globbing
{:.no_toc}

<iframe width="854" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fq-on5AUinE" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## See also

[Using Containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/containers/)

## Other ways to split tests

Some third party applications and libraries might help you to split your test
suite. These applications are not developed or supported by CircleCI. Please check with the owner if you have issues using it with CircleCI. If you're unable to resolve the issue you can search and ask on our forum, [Discuss](https://discuss.circleci.com/).

- **[Knapsack Pro](https://knapsackpro.com)** - Enables allocating tests
  dynamically across parallel CI nodes, allowing your test suite exection to run
  faster. See [CI build time graph examples](https://docs.knapsackpro.com/2018/improve-circleci-parallelisation-for-rspec-minitest-cypress).

- **[phpunit-finder](https://github.com/previousnext/phpunit-finder)** - This is
  a helper CLI tool that queries `phpunit.xml` files to get a list of test
  filenames and print them. This is useful if you want to split tests to run
  them in parallel based on timings on CI tools.
- **[go list](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-List_packages_or_modules)** - Use the built-in Go command `go list ./...` to glob Golang packages. This allows splitting package tests across multiple containers.
    ```
    go test -v $(go list ./... | circleci tests split)
    ```

Commit message:

add note about not being able to run tests split locally

jekyll/_cci2/parallelism-faster-jobs.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Running Tests in Parallel"
short-title: "Running Tests in Parallel"
description: "How to run tests in parallel"
categories: [optimization]
order: 60
version:
- Cloud
- Server v2.x
---

The more tests your project has, the longer it will take for them to complete on a single machine. To reduce this time, you can run tests in parallel by spreading them across multiple separate executors. This requires specifying a parallelism level to define how many separate executors get spun up for the test job. Then, you can use either the CircleCI CLI to split test files, or use environment variables to configure each parallel machine individually.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Specifying a job's parallelism level

Test suites are conventionally defined at the [job]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#sample-configuration-with-concurrent-jobs) level in your `.circleci/config.yml` file.
The `parallelism` key specifies how many independent executors will be set up to run the steps of a job.

To run a job's steps in parallel, set the `parallelism` key to a value greater than 1.

```yaml
# ~/.circleci/config.yml
version: 2
jobs:
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    parallelism: 4
```

![Parallelism]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/executor_types_plus_parallelism.png)

For more information,
see the [Configuring CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#parallelism) document.

## Using the CircleCI CLI to split tests

CircleCI supports automatic test allocation across your containers. The allocation is filename or classname based, depending on the requirements of the test-runner you are using. It requires the CircleCI CLI, which is automatically injected into your build at run-time.

To install the CLI locally, see the [Using the CircleCI Local CLI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/local-cli/) document.

Note: The `circleci tests split` command cannot be run locally as it requires information that only exists within a CircleCI container.

### Splitting test files
{:.no_toc}

The CLI supports splitting tests across machines when running parallel jobs. This is achieved by passing a list of either files or classnames, whichever your test-runner requires at the command line, to the `circleci tests split` command.

#### Globbing test files
{:.no_toc}

To assist in defining your test suite, the CLI supports globbing test files using the following patterns:

- `*` matches any sequence of characters (excluding path separators)
- `**` matches any sequence of characters (including path separators)
- `?` matches any single character (excluding path separators)
- `[abc]` matches any character (excluding path separators) against characters in brackets
- `{foo,bar,...}` matches a sequence of characters, if any of the alternatives in braces matches

To glob test files, pass one or more patterns to the `circleci tests glob` command.

    circleci tests glob "tests/unit/*.java" "tests/functional/*.java"

To check the results of pattern-matching, use the `echo` command.

```yaml
# ~/.circleci/config.yml
version: 2
jobs:
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
        auth:
          username: mydockerhub-user
          password: $DOCKERHUB_PASSWORD  # context / project UI env-var reference
    parallelism: 4
    steps:
      - run:
          command: |
            echo $(circleci tests glob "foo/**/*" "bar/**/*")
            circleci tests glob "foo/**/*" "bar/**/*" | xargs -n 1 echo
```

#### Splitting by timing data

The best way to optimize your test suite across a set of parallel executors is to split your tests using timing data. This will ensure the tests are split in the most even way, leading to a shorter overall test time.

![Test Splitting]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/test_splitting.png)

On each successful run of a test suite, CircleCI saves timings data from the directory specified by the path in the [`store_test_results`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_test_results) step. This timings data consists of how long each test took to complete per filename or classname, depending on the language you are using.

Note: If you do not use `store_test_results`, there will be no timing data available for splitting your tests.

To split by test timings, use the `--split-by` flag with the `timings` split type. The available timings data will then be analyzed and your tests will be split across your parallel-running containers as evenly as possible leading to the fastest possible test run time

    circleci tests glob "**/*.go" | circleci tests split --split-by=timings

The CLI expects both filenames and classnames to be present in the timing data produced by the testing suite. By default, splitting defaults to filename, but you can specify classnames by using the `--timings-type` flag.

    cat my_java_test_classnames | circleci tests split --split-by=timings --timings-type=classname

If you need to manually store and retrieve timing data, use the [`store_artifacts`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_artifacts) step.

#### Splitting by name
{:.no_toc}

By default, if you don't specify a method using the `--split-by` flag, `circleci tests split` expects a list of filenames/classnames and splits tests alphabetically by test name. There are a few ways to provide this list:

Create a text file with test filenames.

    circleci tests split test_filenames.txt

Provide a path to the test files.

    circleci tests split < /path/to/items/to/split

Or pipe a glob of test files.

    circleci tests glob "test/**/*.java" | circleci tests split

The CLI looks up the number of available containers, along with the current container index. Then, it uses deterministic splitting algorithms to split the test files across all available containers.

By default, the number of containers is specified by the `parallelism` key. You can manually set this by using the `--total` flag.

    circleci tests split --total=4 test_filenames.txt

Similarly, the current container index is automatically picked up from environment variables, but can be manually set by using the `--index` flag.

    circleci tests split --index=0 test_filenames.txt

#### Splitting by filesize
{:.no_toc}

When provided with filepaths, the CLI can also split by filesize. To do this, use the `--split-by` flag with the `filesize` split type.

    circleci tests glob "**/*.go" | circleci tests split --split-by=filesize

## Using environment variables to split tests

For full control over parallelism, CircleCI provides two environment variables that you can use in lieu of the CLI to configure each container individually.
`CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL` is the total number of parallel containers being used to run your job, and `CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX` is the index of the specific container that is currently running.
See the [built-in environment variable documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#built-in-environment-variables) for more details.

## Running split tests

Globbing and splitting tests does not actually run your tests. To combine test grouping with test execution, consider saving the grouped tests to a file, then passing this file to your test runner.

```bash
circleci tests glob "test/**/*.rb" | circleci tests split > /tmp/tests-to-run
bundle exec rspec $(cat /tmp/tests-to-run)
```

The contents of the file `/tmp/tests-to-run` will be different in each container, based on `$CIRCLE_NODE_INDEX` and `$CIRCLE_NODE_TOTAL`.

### Video: troubleshooting globbing
{:.no_toc}

<iframe width="854" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fq-on5AUinE" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## See also

[Using Containers]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/containers/)

## Other ways to split tests

Some third party applications and libraries might help you to split your test
suite. These applications are not developed or supported by CircleCI. Please check with the owner if you have issues using it with CircleCI. If you're unable to resolve the issue you can search and ask on our forum, [Discuss](https://discuss.circleci.com/).

- **[Knapsack Pro](https://knapsackpro.com)** - Enables allocating tests
  dynamically across parallel CI nodes, allowing your test suite exection to run
  faster. See [CI build time graph examples](https://docs.knapsackpro.com/2018/improve-circleci-parallelisation-for-rspec-minitest-cypress).

- **[phpunit-finder](https://github.com/previousnext/phpunit-finder)** - This is
  a helper CLI tool that queries `phpunit.xml` files to get a list of test
  filenames and print them. This is useful if you want to split tests to run
  them in parallel based on timings on CI tools.
- **[go list](https://golang.org/cmd/go/#hdr-List_packages_or_modules)** - Use the built-in Go command `go list ./...` to glob Golang packages. This allows splitting package tests across multiple containers.
    ```
    go test -v $(go list ./... | circleci tests split)
    ```
