jekyll/_cci2/runner-upgrading-on-server.adoc, before:

---
version:
- Server v3.x
---
= Upgrading the CircleCI Runner on Server
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:


This page describes how to update the CircleCI runner on Server.

toc::[]

== Runner for server compatibility

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
|===
| Server version  
| Launch Agent Version

| 3.0             
| Runner not supported

| 3.1            
| 1.0.11147-881b608
|===

== Upgrading runner on server

Unlike CircleCI cloud, server does not automatically update the `circleci-launch-agent` and requires manual intervention to update.
 
=== Upgrading runners in containerized environments

==== Upgrading runners for kubernetes 

Refer to the xref:runner-on-kubernetes.adoc[Kubernetes Installation Instructions]

==== Upgrading runners for docker

. Stop any currently running Runner containers following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#stopping-the-docker-container[Stopping the Docker container] instructions.
. Remove the runner containers following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#stopping-the-docker-container[Stopping the Docker container] instructions.
. Start a new Runner Docker container following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#start-the-docker-container-on-server[start the Docker container on Server] instructions.


=== Upgrading runners in non-containerized environments

The process for manually updating the `circleci-launch-agent` binary can be broken down into three steps for non containerized environments.

. Replace existing `circleci-launch-agent` binary with the new version.
. Stop currently running `circleci-launch-agent` processes.
. Start the new version of the `circleci-launch-agent` binary.

==== Installing the new `circleci-launch-agent-binary`

Following the same process in the xref:runner-installation.adoc#download-the-launch-agent-binary-and-verify-the-checksum[Download the launch agent binary] instructions, update the `agent_version` environment variable to the correct version from the <<runner-for-server-compatibility, runner server compatibility table>>

``` bash
export agent_version="<launch-agent-version>"
```

Then following the platform specific installation instructions replace the old binary with the newly updated version that was just downloaded.

==== Stopping currently running launch agent

The currently running `circleci-launch-agent` process will need to be halted before starting the newly updated binary

===== Stopping on Linux

``` bash
sudo systemctl stop circleci.service
sudo systemctl disable circleci.service
```

===== Stopping on Mac

``` bash
sudo launchctl unload '/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist'
```

===== Stopping on Windows

``` powershell
Stop-ScheduledTask -TaskName "CircleCI Launch Agent"
```

==== Start the new runner launch agent

===== Starting on Linux

``` bash
sudo systemctl reload circleci.service 
sudo systemctl enable circleci.service
sudo systemctl start circleci.service`
```

===== Starting on Mac

``` bash
sudo launchctl load '/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist'
```

===== Starting on Windows

``` powershell
Start-ScheduledTask -TaskName "CircleCI Launch Agent"
```

=== Additional Resources
- xref:runner-installation.adoc[Installing the CircleCI Runner]
- xref:runner-on-kubernetes.adoc[Kubernetes Installation Instructions]

Commit message:

refer to server compatibility chart in upgrade docs

jekyll/_cci2/runner-upgrading-on-server.adoc, after:

---
version:
- Server v3.x
---
= Upgrading the CircleCI Runner on Server
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:


This page describes how to update the CircleCI runner on Server.

toc::[]

== Runner for server compatibility

Refer to the xref:runner-installation.adoc#runner-for-server-compatibility[Runner for server compatibility chart] in the runner installation documentation.

== Upgrading runner on server

Unlike CircleCI cloud, server does not automatically update the `circleci-launch-agent` and requires manual intervention to update.
 
=== Upgrading runners in containerized environments

==== Upgrading runners for kubernetes 

Refer to the xref:runner-on-kubernetes.adoc[Kubernetes Installation Instructions]

==== Upgrading runners for docker

. Stop any currently running Runner containers following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#stopping-the-docker-container[Stopping the Docker container] instructions.
. Remove the runner containers following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#stopping-the-docker-container[Stopping the Docker container] instructions.
. Start a new Runner Docker container following the xref:runner-installation.adoc#start-the-docker-container-on-server[start the Docker container on Server] instructions.


=== Upgrading runners in non-containerized environments

The process for manually updating the `circleci-launch-agent` binary can be broken down into three steps for non containerized environments.

. Replace existing `circleci-launch-agent` binary with the new version.
. Stop currently running `circleci-launch-agent` processes.
. Start the new version of the `circleci-launch-agent` binary.

==== Installing the new `circleci-launch-agent-binary`

Following the same process in the xref:runner-installation.adoc#download-the-launch-agent-binary-and-verify-the-checksum[Download the launch agent binary] instructions, update the `agent_version` environment variable to the correct version from the <<runner-for-server-compatibility, runner server compatibility table>>

``` bash
export agent_version="<launch-agent-version>"
```

Then following the platform specific installation instructions replace the old binary with the newly updated version that was just downloaded.

==== Stopping currently running launch agent

The currently running `circleci-launch-agent` process will need to be halted before starting the newly updated binary

===== Stopping on Linux

``` bash
sudo systemctl stop circleci.service
sudo systemctl disable circleci.service
```

===== Stopping on Mac

``` bash
sudo launchctl unload '/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist'
```

===== Stopping on Windows

``` powershell
Stop-ScheduledTask -TaskName "CircleCI Launch Agent"
```

==== Start the new runner launch agent

===== Starting on Linux

``` bash
sudo systemctl reload circleci.service 
sudo systemctl enable circleci.service
sudo systemctl start circleci.service`
```

===== Starting on Mac

``` bash
sudo launchctl load '/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.circleci.runner.plist'
```

===== Starting on Windows

``` powershell
Start-ScheduledTask -TaskName "CircleCI Launch Agent"
```

=== Additional Resources
- xref:runner-installation.adoc[Installing the CircleCI Runner]
- xref:runner-on-kubernetes.adoc[Kubernetes Installation Instructions]
