jekyll/_cci2/runner-server.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: CircleCI Runner in Server
short-title: CircleCI Runner in Server
categories: [platforms]
description: How to set up a Runner in Server
order: 31
version:
- Server v3.x
---

## Authentication

When creating namespaces, resource classes and tokens, the CLI needs to be configured to connect to the Server 
deployment either via `--host HOSTNAME` and `--token TOKEN` flags, or the CircleCI CLI's configuration file.

####  Resource class example
```plaintext
circleci runner resource-class create <resource-class> <description> --host HOSTNAME --token TOKEN
```

## Configuration file

When setting up a Runner, the configuration file should include `host` property.

```yaml
api:
    auth_token: AUTH_TOKEN
    host: HOSTNAME
runner:
  name: RUNNER_NAME
  command_prefix: ["sudo", "-niHu", "circleci", "--"]
  working_directory: /opt/circleci/workdir/%s
  cleanup_working_directory: true
```

## Version

A specific server version works with a specific runner version. The table below presents the mapping.

Server Version  | Runner
----------------|---------------------------------
3.0 | TBD
{: class="table table-striped"}


Replace `VERSION` and run the following steps to download, verify and install the binary of a specific version of runner.

```sh
agent_version=VERSION
prefix=/opt/circleci
sudo mkdir -p "$prefix/workdir"
base_url="https://circleci-binary-releases.s3.amazonaws.com/circleci-launch-agent"
echo "Determining latest version of CircleCI Launch Agent"
echo "Using CircleCI Launch Agent version $agent_version"
echo "Downloading and verifying CircleCI Launch Agent Binary"
curl -sSL "$base_url/$agent_version/checksums.txt" -o checksums.txt
file="$(grep -F "$platform" checksums.txt | cut -d ' ' -f 2 | sed 's/^.//')"
mkdir -p "$platform"
echo "Downloading CircleCI Launch Agent: $file"
curl --compressed -L "$base_url/$agent_version/$file" -o "$file"
echo "Verifying CircleCI Launch Agent download"
grep "$file" checksums.txt | sha256sum --check && chmod +x "$file"; sudo cp "$file" "$prefix/circleci-launch-agent" || echo "Invalid checksum for CircleCI Launch Agent, please try download again"
```

Commit message:

Adding note about availability in Server 3.x

jekyll/_cci2/runner-server.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: CircleCI Runner in Server
short-title: CircleCI Runner in Server
categories: [platforms]
description: How to set up a Runner in Server
order: 31
version:
- Server v3.x
---

NOTE: CircleCI Runner is not yet available on the current version of Server 3.x; however, it will be available for preview before the next release. Please [contact us](https://circleci.com/contact/) for more information.

## Authentication

When creating namespaces, resource classes and tokens, the CLI needs to be configured to connect to the Server 
deployment either via `--host HOSTNAME` and `--token TOKEN` flags, or the CircleCI CLI's configuration file.

####  Resource class example
```plaintext
circleci runner resource-class create <resource-class> <description> --host HOSTNAME --token TOKEN
```

## Configuration file

When setting up a Runner, the configuration file should include `host` property.

```yaml
api:
    auth_token: AUTH_TOKEN
    host: HOSTNAME
runner:
  name: RUNNER_NAME
  command_prefix: ["sudo", "-niHu", "circleci", "--"]
  working_directory: /opt/circleci/workdir/%s
  cleanup_working_directory: true
```

## Version

A specific server version works with a specific runner version. The table below presents the mapping.

Server Version  | Runner
----------------|---------------------------------
3.0 | TBD
{: class="table table-striped"}


Replace `VERSION` and run the following steps to download, verify and install the binary of a specific version of runner.

```sh
agent_version=VERSION
prefix=/opt/circleci
sudo mkdir -p "$prefix/workdir"
base_url="https://circleci-binary-releases.s3.amazonaws.com/circleci-launch-agent"
echo "Determining latest version of CircleCI Launch Agent"
echo "Using CircleCI Launch Agent version $agent_version"
echo "Downloading and verifying CircleCI Launch Agent Binary"
curl -sSL "$base_url/$agent_version/checksums.txt" -o checksums.txt
file="$(grep -F "$platform" checksums.txt | cut -d ' ' -f 2 | sed 's/^.//')"
mkdir -p "$platform"
echo "Downloading CircleCI Launch Agent: $file"
curl --compressed -L "$base_url/$agent_version/$file" -o "$file"
echo "Verifying CircleCI Launch Agent download"
grep "$file" checksums.txt | sha256sum --check && chmod +x "$file"; sudo cp "$file" "$prefix/circleci-launch-agent" || echo "Invalid checksum for CircleCI Launch Agent, please try download again"
```
