jekyll/_cci2/runner-overview.adoc, before:

---
version:
- Cloud
---
= CircleCI Runner Overview
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

NOTE: CircleCI runner is available on the https://circleci.com/pricing[Scale Plan]. Please reach out to your sales representative (or https://circleci.com/contact-us/?cloud[contact us]) for information on how to sign up for the Scale Plan.

toc::[]

== Introduction

CircleCI runner enables you to use your own infrastructure for running jobs. This means you will be able to build and test on a wider variety of architectures, as well as providing you with additional control over the environment. The diagram below illustrates how CircleCI runner extends our existing systems.

.Runner Architecture
image::runner-overview-diagram.png[CircleCI Runner Architecture]

== CircleCI runner use cases

There are two key use cases CircleCI aims to meet with the runner:

* Privileged access & controls - CircleCI understands that some customers require running jobs on on-premises or limited-access infrastructure due to stricter isolation requirements. Some things that the runner enables are:
** IP restrictions - Runners can have static IP addresses that you can control.
** Identity Access Management (IAM) permissions - If you set up runners in AWS, they can be assigned IAM permissions.
** Monitor the operating system.
** Connect to private networks.

* Unique compute requirements - Customers who need to run jobs on an environment or architecture that CircleCI does not offer as a resource class can use the runner to fill that need.

== Available CircleCI runner platforms

CircleCI runner is available on multiple platforms. Support levels fall into two categories:

* <<Supported>>
* <<Preview>>

=== Supported

*Supported* Level platforms ensure that CircleCI runners are both built and tested on their respective systems.

With a *Supported* platform, users receive the following:

* Documentation and best practices
* Support: CircleCI Customer Engineers will assist customers to resolve issues within their usual Gold Service Level Agreements (SLAs)

*Supported* CircleCI runners are available on the following platforms:

* Ubuntu 18.04 or later (x86_64 or ARM64)
* Mac OS X 10.15+ (Intel)
* macOS 11.2+ (Apple M1)

=== Preview

On *Preview* Level platforms, CircleCI runners are currently in development, thus testing is not complete.

With a *Preview* platform, users receive the following:

* A full integration that is a work-in-progress -- thus, some manual configuration may be required to install, configure, and deploy
* Work-in-progress documentation and best practices
* Support: CircleCI Customer Engineers will provide assistance and guidance on best practices for installing, configuring, and operating CircleCI runners
** Users are encouraged to provide feedback in order to rapidly improve the CircleCI runner user experience and meet its necessary criteria as a *Supported* platform

*Preview* CircleCI runners are available on the following platforms:

* Additional Linux distributions - RHEL, SUSE, Debian, etc. (x86_64 or ARM64)
* Docker
* Kubernetes
* Windows

NOTE: Given the active development of Preview CircleCI runners, please https://circleci.com/contact/[contact us] if you
have questions around support for your environment and use-case(s). We also invite you to https://circleci.canny.io/cloud-feature-requests[share feedback]
and contribute to our https://discuss.circleci.com/t/self-hosted-runners-are-here/38159[runner discuss page] to help
prioritize development efforts from our team!

== Getting Started

To get started with CircleCI runner:

* https://circleci.com/contact/[Contact us] to sign up for a free trial of the Scale plan, if you are not already enrolled
* Provide your own platform to deploy your CircleCI runners (See the <<Available CircleCI runner platforms>> section)
* xref:runner-installation.adoc[Install] CircleCI runner!

== CircleCI runner operation

Once CircleCI runner is installed, the runner polls `circleci.com` for work, runs jobs, and returns status, logs, and artifacts to CircleCI. When the runner is not running a job, it will auto-update itself when a new version is released.

The runner consists of two components: the launch agent and the task agent.

* launch agent (launch-agent) - manages gathering the information required to run a task (defined as a parallel run of a job) while also downloading and launching a task agent process.
* task agent (task-agent) - handles running a task retrieved and configured by the launch agent.

The system has been designed to allow administrators to configure the task-agent to run with a lower level of privileges than the launch-agent. Any user who is able to execute a job will be able to gain the same privileges as task-agent. The instructions below are the recommended deployment which follows this approach (launch agent will run as root, but task agent will run as circleci).

== Public repositories

CircleCI runner is not recommended for use with public projects that have the "Build forked pull requests" setting enabled. In this case, a malicious actor may alter your machine or execute code on it by forking your repository, committing code, and opening a pull request. Untrusted jobs running on your CircleCI runner pose significant security risks for your machine and network environment, especially if your machine persists its environment between jobs. Some of the risks include:

* Malicious programs running on the machine.
* Escaping the machine's runner sandbox.
* Exposing access to the machine's network environment.
* Persisting unwanted or dangerous data on the machine.

== Referencing your runner on a job

After setting up the runner, you will need to reference it on a job by setting some fields in a special way in your `.circleci/config.yml` file. The fields you must set for a specific job to run using your runner are:

* `machine: true`
* `resource_class: your-namespace/your-resource`

Here is a simple example of how you could set up a job.

```yaml
version: 2.1
workflows:
  testing:
    jobs:
      - runner
jobs:
  runner:
    machine: true
    resource_class: your-namespace/your-resource
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hi I'm on Runners!"
```
The job will then execute using your runner when you push the config to your VCS provider.

NOTE: A namespace is a unique identifier claimed by a user or organization. Each user or organization can claim one unique and immutable namespace. Organizations are, by default, limited to claiming only one namespace. This policy is designed to limit name-squatting and namespace noise. If you need to change your namespace, please https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us[contact support].

== Limitations

Almost all standard CircleCI features are available for use with runner jobs, but at present a few features are not yet supported. If these features are important for you to make use of runner jobs, please let us know via the relevant canny page.

- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-rerun-with-ssh-on-runner[Rerun with SSH]
- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-test-splitting-on-self-hosted-runners[Test Splitting]
- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-addsshkey-on-self-hosted-runners[`add_ssh_keys`]

Commit message:

change notes in runner docs to say available from server 3.1

jekyll/_cci2/runner-overview.adoc, after:

---
version:
- Cloud
---
= CircleCI Runner Overview
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

NOTE: CircleCI runner is available on the https://circleci.com/pricing[Scale Plan] and for server customers running server v3.1.0 and up. Please reach out to your sales representative (or https://circleci.com/contact-us/?cloud[contact us]) for information on how to sign up for the Scale Plan.

toc::[]

== Introduction

CircleCI runner enables you to use your own infrastructure for running jobs. This means you will be able to build and test on a wider variety of architectures, as well as providing you with additional control over the environment. The diagram below illustrates how CircleCI runner extends our existing systems.

.Runner Architecture
image::runner-overview-diagram.png[CircleCI Runner Architecture]

== CircleCI runner use cases

There are two key use cases CircleCI aims to meet with the runner:

* Privileged access & controls - CircleCI understands that some customers require running jobs on on-premises or limited-access infrastructure due to stricter isolation requirements. Some things that the runner enables are:
** IP restrictions - Runners can have static IP addresses that you can control.
** Identity Access Management (IAM) permissions - If you set up runners in AWS, they can be assigned IAM permissions.
** Monitor the operating system.
** Connect to private networks.

* Unique compute requirements - Customers who need to run jobs on an environment or architecture that CircleCI does not offer as a resource class can use the runner to fill that need.

== Available CircleCI runner platforms

CircleCI runner is available on multiple platforms. Support levels fall into two categories:

* <<Supported>>
* <<Preview>>

=== Supported

*Supported* Level platforms ensure that CircleCI runners are both built and tested on their respective systems.

With a *Supported* platform, users receive the following:

* Documentation and best practices
* Support: CircleCI Customer Engineers will assist customers to resolve issues within their usual Gold Service Level Agreements (SLAs)

*Supported* CircleCI runners are available on the following platforms:

* Ubuntu 18.04 or later (x86_64 or ARM64)
* Mac OS X 10.15+ (Intel)
* macOS 11.2+ (Apple M1)

=== Preview

On *Preview* Level platforms, CircleCI runners are currently in development, thus testing is not complete.

With a *Preview* platform, users receive the following:

* A full integration that is a work-in-progress -- thus, some manual configuration may be required to install, configure, and deploy
* Work-in-progress documentation and best practices
* Support: CircleCI Customer Engineers will provide assistance and guidance on best practices for installing, configuring, and operating CircleCI runners
** Users are encouraged to provide feedback in order to rapidly improve the CircleCI runner user experience and meet its necessary criteria as a *Supported* platform

*Preview* CircleCI runners are available on the following platforms:

* Additional Linux distributions - RHEL, SUSE, Debian, etc. (x86_64 or ARM64)
* Docker
* Kubernetes
* Windows

NOTE: Given the active development of Preview CircleCI runners, please https://circleci.com/contact/[contact us] if you
have questions around support for your environment and use-case(s). We also invite you to https://circleci.canny.io/cloud-feature-requests[share feedback]
and contribute to our https://discuss.circleci.com/t/self-hosted-runners-are-here/38159[runner discuss page] to help
prioritize development efforts from our team!

== Getting Started

To get started with CircleCI runner:

* https://circleci.com/contact/[Contact us] to sign up for a free trial of the Scale plan, if you are not already enrolled
* Provide your own platform to deploy your CircleCI runners (See the <<Available CircleCI runner platforms>> section)
* xref:runner-installation.adoc[Install] CircleCI runner!

== CircleCI runner operation

Once CircleCI runner is installed, the runner polls `circleci.com` for work, runs jobs, and returns status, logs, and artifacts to CircleCI. When the runner is not running a job, it will auto-update itself when a new version is released.

The runner consists of two components: the launch agent and the task agent.

* launch agent (launch-agent) - manages gathering the information required to run a task (defined as a parallel run of a job) while also downloading and launching a task agent process.
* task agent (task-agent) - handles running a task retrieved and configured by the launch agent.

The system has been designed to allow administrators to configure the task-agent to run with a lower level of privileges than the launch-agent. Any user who is able to execute a job will be able to gain the same privileges as task-agent. The instructions below are the recommended deployment which follows this approach (launch agent will run as root, but task agent will run as circleci).

== Public repositories

CircleCI runner is not recommended for use with public projects that have the "Build forked pull requests" setting enabled. In this case, a malicious actor may alter your machine or execute code on it by forking your repository, committing code, and opening a pull request. Untrusted jobs running on your CircleCI runner pose significant security risks for your machine and network environment, especially if your machine persists its environment between jobs. Some of the risks include:

* Malicious programs running on the machine.
* Escaping the machine's runner sandbox.
* Exposing access to the machine's network environment.
* Persisting unwanted or dangerous data on the machine.

== Referencing your runner on a job

After setting up the runner, you will need to reference it on a job by setting some fields in a special way in your `.circleci/config.yml` file. The fields you must set for a specific job to run using your runner are:

* `machine: true`
* `resource_class: your-namespace/your-resource`

Here is a simple example of how you could set up a job.

```yaml
version: 2.1
workflows:
  testing:
    jobs:
      - runner
jobs:
  runner:
    machine: true
    resource_class: your-namespace/your-resource
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hi I'm on Runners!"
```
The job will then execute using your runner when you push the config to your VCS provider.

NOTE: A namespace is a unique identifier claimed by a user or organization. Each user or organization can claim one unique and immutable namespace. Organizations are, by default, limited to claiming only one namespace. This policy is designed to limit name-squatting and namespace noise. If you need to change your namespace, please https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us[contact support].

== Limitations

Almost all standard CircleCI features are available for use with runner jobs, but at present a few features are not yet supported. If these features are important for you to make use of runner jobs, please let us know via the relevant canny page.

- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-rerun-with-ssh-on-runner[Rerun with SSH]
- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-test-splitting-on-self-hosted-runners[Test Splitting]
- https://circleci.canny.io/runner-feature-requests/p/support-addsshkey-on-self-hosted-runners[`add_ssh_keys`]
