jekyll/_cci2/server-3-operator-backup-and-restore.adoc, before:

---
version:
- Server v3.x
- Server Admin
---
= CircleCI Server v3.x Backup and Restore
:page-layout: classic-docs
:imagesdir: ../assets/img/docs/
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview
_Backup and restore is available for server v3.1.0 and up._

While operating and administering CircleCI server, you will undoubtedly ponder how to maintain backups 
and recover your installation, should there be a need to migrate it to another cluster or recover from a critical event.
This document outlines our recommendations for how to backup and restore your CircleCI server instance data and state.

CircleCI server is administered via https://kots.io/[Kots], which uses https://velero.io/[Velero] for backup and restore.
The benefit of this approach is that it not only restores your application's data,
but it also restores the state of the Kubernetes cluster and its resources at the time of the backup.
In this way, we can also restore admin-console configurations and customizations you made to your cluster.

== The setup

Backups of CircleCI server can be created quite easily through https://kots.io/[Kots].
To enable backup support however, you will need to install and configure https://velero.io/[Velero] on your cluster.
Below, we will outline the steps needed to install Velero on your cluster.

=== Prerequisites

- Download and install the https://velero.io/docs/v1.6/basic-install/[Velero CLI] for your environment.

==== AWS Prerequisites

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html[AWS CLI] is installed.

==== GCP Prerequisites

- `gcloud` and `gsutil` are installed. You can set them up by installing Google Cloud SDK, which includes both, by referring to the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/[documentation].

For more information, see Velero's https://velero.io/docs/v1.6/supported-providers/[supported providers] documentation.

Below, you will find instructions for creating a server 3.x backup on AWS and GCP.

////

* AWS SETUP *

////
== Server 3.x backups on AWS

The following steps will assume AWS as your provider and you have met the <<prerequisites, prerequisites>> listed above.

These instructions were sourced from the Velero documentation https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-aws#setup[here].

=== Step 1 - Create an AWS S3 bucket

[source,bash]
----
BUCKET=<YOUR_BUCKET>
REGION=<YOUR_REGION>
aws s3api create-bucket \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --region $REGION \
    --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=$REGION
----
NOTE: `us-east-1` does not support a https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CreateBucket.html#API_CreateBucket_RequestBody[LocationConstraint]. If your region is `us-east-1`, omit the bucket configuration.

=== Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero

* Create an IAM user

[source,bash]
----
aws iam create-user --user-name velero
----

* Attach policies to give user `velero` the necessary permissions:

[source,bash]
----
cat > velero-policy.json <<EOF
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
                "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                "ec2:CreateTags",
                "ec2:CreateVolume",
                "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                "ec2:DeleteSnapshot"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:DeleteObject",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::${BUCKET}/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:ListBucket"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::${BUCKET}"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
EOF
----

[source,bash]
----
aws iam put-user-policy \
  --user-name velero \
  --policy-name velero \
  --policy-document file://velero-policy.json
----

* Create an access key for user `velero`

[source,bash]
----
aws iam create-access-key --user-name velero
----

The result should look like this:
[source,bash]
----
{
  "AccessKey": {
        "UserName": "velero",
        "Status": "Active",
        "CreateDate": "2017-07-31T22:24:41.576Z",
        "SecretAccessKey": <AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>,
        "AccessKeyId": <AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
  }
}
----

* Create a Velero-specific credentials file (eg: `./credentials-velero`) in your local directory, with the following contents:

[source,bash]
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
----
where the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` placeholders are values returned from the `create-access-key` request in the previous step.

=== Step 3 - Install and start Velero

* Run the following `velero` `install` command. This will create a namespace called `velero` and install all the necessary resources to run Velero.
Make sure that you pass the correct file name containing the AWS credentials that you have created in <<Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero, Step 2>>.

NOTE: kots backups require https://restic.net/[restic] to operate. When installing Velero, ensure that you have the `--use-restic` flag set, as shown below:

[source, bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider aws \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-aws:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --backup-location-config region=$REGION \
    --snapshot-location-config region=$REGION \
    --secret-file ./credentials-velero \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

* Once Velero is installed on your cluster, check the new `velero` namespace. You should have a Velero deployment and a restic daemonset, e.g.:

[source,bash]
----
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          2m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

As restic is a daemonset, there should be one pod for each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

////

* GCP SETUP *

////
== Server 3.x backups on GCP

The following steps are specific for Google Cloud Platform and it is assumed you have met the <<prerequisites, prerequisites>>.

These instructions were sourced from the documentation for the Velero GCP plugin https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp#setup[here].

=== Step 1 - Create a GCP bucket
To reduce the chance of typos, we will set some of the parameters as shell variables. Should you be unable to complete all the steps in the same session,
do not forget to reset variables as necessary before proceeding. In the step below, for example, we will define a variable for your bucket name. Replace
the `<YOUR_BUCKET>` placeholder with the name of the bucket you want to create for your backups.

[source,bash]
----
BUCKET=<YOUR_BUCKET>

gsutil mb gs://$BUCKET/
----

=== Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero

If your server installation runs within a GKE cluster, ensure that your current IAM user is a cluster admin for this cluster, as RBAC objects need to be
created. More information can be found in the https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control#iam-rolebinding-bootstrap[GKE documentation].

. First, we will set a shell variable for your project ID. To do so, first make sure that your `gcloud` CLI points to the correct project by looking at the current configuration:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud config list
----

. If the project is correct, set the variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get-value project)
----

. Create a service account:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts create velero \
    --display-name "Velero service account"
----
NOTE: If you run several clusters with Velero, you might want to consider using a more specific name for the Service Account besides `velero`, as suggested here.

. You can check if the service account has been created successfully by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts list
----

. Next, store the email address for the Service Account in a variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL=$(gcloud iam service-accounts list \
  --filter="displayName:Velero service account" \
  --format 'value(email)')
----
Modify the command as needed to match the display name you have chosen for your Service Account.

. Grant the necessary permissions to the Service Account:
+
[source,bash]
----
ROLE_PERMISSIONS=(
    compute.disks.get
    compute.disks.create
    compute.disks.createSnapshot
    compute.snapshots.get
    compute.snapshots.create
    compute.snapshots.useReadOnly
    compute.snapshots.delete
    compute.zones.get
)

gcloud iam roles create velero.server \
    --project $PROJECT_ID \
    --title "Velero Server" \
    --permissions "$(IFS=","; echo "${ROLE_PERMISSIONS[*]}")"

gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID \
    --member serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --role projects/$PROJECT_ID/roles/velero.server

gsutil iam ch serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL:objectAdmin gs://${BUCKET}
----

Now, you need to ensure that Velero can use this Service Account.

==== Option 1: JSON key file

You can simply pass a JSON credentials file to Velero to authorize it to perform actions as the Service Account. To do this, we first need to create a key:
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create credentials-velero \
    --iam-account $SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL
----
After running this, you should have a file named `credentials-velero` in your local working directory.

==== Option 2: Workload Identities

If you are already using https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity[Workload Identities] in your cluster, you can bind
the GCP Service Account you just created to Velero's Kubernetes service account. In this case, the GCP Service Account will need the
`iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob` role in addition to the permissions already specified above.

=== Step 3 - Install and start Velero

* Run one of the following `velero` `install` commands, depending on how you authorized the service account. This will create a namespace called `velero` and install all the necessary resources to run Velero.

NOTE: kots backups require https://restic.net/[restic] to operate. When installing Velero, ensure that you have the `--use-restic` flag set.

==== If using a JSON key file

[source, bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider gcp \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --secret-file ./credentials-velero \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

==== If using Workload Identities

[source,bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider gcp \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --no-secret \
    --sa-annotations iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account=$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --backup-location-config serviceAccount=$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

For more options on customizing your installation, refer to the https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp#install-and-start-velero[Velero documentation].

* Once Velero is installed on your cluster, check the new `velero` namespace. You should have a Velero deployment and a restic daemonset. eg:

[source,bash]
----
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          2m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

As restic is a daemonset, there should be one pod for each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

== Creating backups
Now that Velero is installed on your cluster, you should see the snapshots option in the navbar of your kots admin console.

image::kots-admin-navbar-snapshot-option.png[Kots Navbar]

If you see this option, you are ready to create your first backup. If you do not see this option, please refer to the
<<troubleshooting-backups-and-restoration, troubleshooting>> section.

=== Option 1 - Create a backup with kots CLI

To create the backup, run:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl kots backup --namespace <your namespace>
----

=== Option 2 - Create a backup with kots admin console

Select *Snapshots* from the navbar. The default selection should be *Full Snapshots*, which is recommended.

image::kots-admin-full-snapshot.png[Kots Navbar]

Select the *Start a snapshot* button.

image::kots-admin-create-backup.png[Kots Create Snapshot]

== Restoring backups

=== Option 1 - Restore a backup from a snapshot

Unlike other restore procedures, which would require you to reinstall server and then restore the data, restoring CircleCI
server from a kots backup does not require you to reinstall server yourself before-hand. To restore from a backup stored
in your S3 compatible storage, you will need to ensure Velero is installed and configured on your Kubernetes cluster, using the instructions above.
Velero must have access to the storage bucket containing the backups.

NOTE: If this is a new cluster or if you need to re-install Velero, the installation should be done with the same credentials
generated above.


=== Option 2 - Restore a backup using the kots CLI

To restore a backup using the kots CLI, run the following:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl kots restore --from-backup <backup-instance-id>
----

=== Option 3 - Restore a backup using the kots administration console UI

As with backups, navigate to *Snapshots* in kots admin. Now you should see a list of all your backups, each with a restore icon.
Choose the backup you wish to use and select restore.

image::kots-admin-restore.png[Kots Create Snapshot]

IMPORTANT: The restore will create new load balancers for CircleCI's services. You will need to either update your DNS
records or the hostname configurations in kots admin-console as a result. You may also need to consider updating the
`nomad server endpoint` provided to your nomad clients.

IMPORTANT: If you are using pre-existing nomad clients, you will need to restart them before they will connect to the
nomad-server cluster.

It should take roughly 10-15 mins for CircleCI server to be restored and operational.

== Optional - Scheduling backups with kots

To schedule regular backups, select *Snapshots*, and then *Settings & Schedule* from the kots administration console.

image::kots-admin-scheduled-backup.png[Snapshots Selected]

And here, you can find configurations related to your snapshots, including scheduling.

image::kots-admin-scheduled-snapshots.png[Snapshot Settings]

== Troubleshooting Backups and Restoration

=== Snapshots are not available in kots admin console

If your kots admin console does not display the snapshot option, you may try the following:

* Confirm that your version of kots supports snapshots. At this time, we recommend v1.40.0 or above:

```
$ kubectl kots version
Replicated KOTS 1.40.0
```

* Check that Velero is deployed and running correctly. You may check the Velero logs with the command below.

```
$ kubectl logs deployment/velero --namespace velero
```

You may need to reinstall Velero as a result.

* Confirm that snapshots are available on your license. You may reach out to our Customer Support Team to validate this.

=== Errors occur during backup or restore process

If you experience an error during backup or restore processes, the first place to look would be the Velero logs.
Using the command above, you may find 4XX errors, which would likely be caused by issues with your storage bucket access.

* Confirm that your bucket exists and is in the region you expect.
* Then confirm that the credentials provided to Velero can be used to access the bucket.
* You may need to run the command to install Velero again, this time with updated bucket info.

You may also check the status of pods in the `velero` namespace.

```
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Pending   0          10m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          10m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Pending   0          10m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          10m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          10m
```

In the above example, some restic pods are pending, which means they are waiting for a node to have available CPU or
memory resources. You may need to scale your nodes to accommodate restic in this case.

Commit message:

provide command to get a list of backup names

jekyll/_cci2/server-3-operator-backup-and-restore.adoc, after:

---
version:
- Server v3.x
- Server Admin
---
= CircleCI Server v3.x Backup and Restore
:page-layout: classic-docs
:imagesdir: ../assets/img/docs/
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Overview
_Backup and restore is available for server v3.1.0 and up._

While operating and administering CircleCI server, you will undoubtedly ponder how to maintain backups 
and recover your installation, should there be a need to migrate it to another cluster or recover from a critical event.
This document outlines our recommendations for how to backup and restore your CircleCI server instance data and state.

CircleCI server is administered via https://kots.io/[Kots], which uses https://velero.io/[Velero] for backup and restore.
The benefit of this approach is that it not only restores your application's data,
but it also restores the state of the Kubernetes cluster and its resources at the time of the backup.
In this way, we can also restore admin-console configurations and customizations you made to your cluster.

== The setup

Backups of CircleCI server can be created quite easily through https://kots.io/[Kots].
To enable backup support however, you will need to install and configure https://velero.io/[Velero] on your cluster.
Below, we will outline the steps needed to install Velero on your cluster.

=== Prerequisites

- Download and install the https://velero.io/docs/v1.6/basic-install/[Velero CLI] for your environment.

==== AWS Prerequisites

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html[AWS CLI] is installed.

==== GCP Prerequisites

- `gcloud` and `gsutil` are installed. You can set them up by installing Google Cloud SDK, which includes both, by referring to the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/[documentation].

For more information, see Velero's https://velero.io/docs/v1.6/supported-providers/[supported providers] documentation.

Below, you will find instructions for creating a server 3.x backup on AWS and GCP.

////

* AWS SETUP *

////
== Server 3.x backups on AWS

The following steps will assume AWS as your provider and you have met the <<prerequisites, prerequisites>> listed above.

These instructions were sourced from the Velero documentation https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-aws#setup[here].

=== Step 1 - Create an AWS S3 bucket

[source,bash]
----
BUCKET=<YOUR_BUCKET>
REGION=<YOUR_REGION>
aws s3api create-bucket \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --region $REGION \
    --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=$REGION
----
NOTE: `us-east-1` does not support a https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_CreateBucket.html#API_CreateBucket_RequestBody[LocationConstraint]. If your region is `us-east-1`, omit the bucket configuration.

=== Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero

* Create an IAM user

[source,bash]
----
aws iam create-user --user-name velero
----

* Attach policies to give user `velero` the necessary permissions:

[source,bash]
----
cat > velero-policy.json <<EOF
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
                "ec2:DescribeSnapshots",
                "ec2:CreateTags",
                "ec2:CreateVolume",
                "ec2:CreateSnapshot",
                "ec2:DeleteSnapshot"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:GetObject",
                "s3:DeleteObject",
                "s3:PutObject",
                "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
                "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::${BUCKET}/*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "s3:ListBucket"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:s3:::${BUCKET}"
            ]
        }
    ]
}
EOF
----

[source,bash]
----
aws iam put-user-policy \
  --user-name velero \
  --policy-name velero \
  --policy-document file://velero-policy.json
----

* Create an access key for user `velero`

[source,bash]
----
aws iam create-access-key --user-name velero
----

The result should look like this:
[source,bash]
----
{
  "AccessKey": {
        "UserName": "velero",
        "Status": "Active",
        "CreateDate": "2017-07-31T22:24:41.576Z",
        "SecretAccessKey": <AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>,
        "AccessKeyId": <AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
  }
}
----

* Create a Velero-specific credentials file (eg: `./credentials-velero`) in your local directory, with the following contents:

[source,bash]
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>
aws_secret_access_key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>
----
where the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` placeholders are values returned from the `create-access-key` request in the previous step.

=== Step 3 - Install and start Velero

* Run the following `velero` `install` command. This will create a namespace called `velero` and install all the necessary resources to run Velero.
Make sure that you pass the correct file name containing the AWS credentials that you have created in <<Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero, Step 2>>.

NOTE: kots backups require https://restic.net/[restic] to operate. When installing Velero, ensure that you have the `--use-restic` flag set, as shown below:

[source, bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider aws \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-aws:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --backup-location-config region=$REGION \
    --snapshot-location-config region=$REGION \
    --secret-file ./credentials-velero \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

* Once Velero is installed on your cluster, check the new `velero` namespace. You should have a Velero deployment and a restic daemonset, e.g.:

[source,bash]
----
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          2m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

As restic is a daemonset, there should be one pod for each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

////

* GCP SETUP *

////
== Server 3.x backups on GCP

The following steps are specific for Google Cloud Platform and it is assumed you have met the <<prerequisites, prerequisites>>.

These instructions were sourced from the documentation for the Velero GCP plugin https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp#setup[here].

=== Step 1 - Create a GCP bucket
To reduce the chance of typos, we will set some of the parameters as shell variables. Should you be unable to complete all the steps in the same session,
do not forget to reset variables as necessary before proceeding. In the step below, for example, we will define a variable for your bucket name. Replace
the `<YOUR_BUCKET>` placeholder with the name of the bucket you want to create for your backups.

[source,bash]
----
BUCKET=<YOUR_BUCKET>

gsutil mb gs://$BUCKET/
----

=== Step 2 - Setup permissions for Velero

If your server installation runs within a GKE cluster, ensure that your current IAM user is a cluster admin for this cluster, as RBAC objects need to be
created. More information can be found in the https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control#iam-rolebinding-bootstrap[GKE documentation].

. First, we will set a shell variable for your project ID. To do so, first make sure that your `gcloud` CLI points to the correct project by looking at the current configuration:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud config list
----

. If the project is correct, set the variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
PROJECT_ID=$(gcloud config get-value project)
----

. Create a service account:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts create velero \
    --display-name "Velero service account"
----
NOTE: If you run several clusters with Velero, you might want to consider using a more specific name for the Service Account besides `velero`, as suggested here.

. You can check if the service account has been created successfully by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts list
----

. Next, store the email address for the Service Account in a variable:
+
[source,bash]
----
SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL=$(gcloud iam service-accounts list \
  --filter="displayName:Velero service account" \
  --format 'value(email)')
----
Modify the command as needed to match the display name you have chosen for your Service Account.

. Grant the necessary permissions to the Service Account:
+
[source,bash]
----
ROLE_PERMISSIONS=(
    compute.disks.get
    compute.disks.create
    compute.disks.createSnapshot
    compute.snapshots.get
    compute.snapshots.create
    compute.snapshots.useReadOnly
    compute.snapshots.delete
    compute.zones.get
)

gcloud iam roles create velero.server \
    --project $PROJECT_ID \
    --title "Velero Server" \
    --permissions "$(IFS=","; echo "${ROLE_PERMISSIONS[*]}")"

gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT_ID \
    --member serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --role projects/$PROJECT_ID/roles/velero.server

gsutil iam ch serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL:objectAdmin gs://${BUCKET}
----

Now, you need to ensure that Velero can use this Service Account.

==== Option 1: JSON key file

You can simply pass a JSON credentials file to Velero to authorize it to perform actions as the Service Account. To do this, we first need to create a key:
[source,bash]
----
gcloud iam service-accounts keys create credentials-velero \
    --iam-account $SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL
----
After running this, you should have a file named `credentials-velero` in your local working directory.

==== Option 2: Workload Identities

If you are already using https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/workload-identity[Workload Identities] in your cluster, you can bind
the GCP Service Account you just created to Velero's Kubernetes service account. In this case, the GCP Service Account will need the
`iam.serviceAccounts.signBlob` role in addition to the permissions already specified above.

=== Step 3 - Install and start Velero

* Run one of the following `velero` `install` commands, depending on how you authorized the service account. This will create a namespace called `velero` and install all the necessary resources to run Velero.

NOTE: kots backups require https://restic.net/[restic] to operate. When installing Velero, ensure that you have the `--use-restic` flag set.

==== If using a JSON key file

[source, bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider gcp \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --secret-file ./credentials-velero \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

==== If using Workload Identities

[source,bash]
----
velero install \
    --provider gcp \
    --plugins velero/velero-plugin-for-gcp:v1.2.0 \
    --bucket $BUCKET \
    --no-secret \
    --sa-annotations iam.gke.io/gcp-service-account=$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --backup-location-config serviceAccount=$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL \
    --use-restic \
    --wait
----

For more options on customizing your installation, refer to the https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero-plugin-for-gcp#install-and-start-velero[Velero documentation].

* Once Velero is installed on your cluster, check the new `velero` namespace. You should have a Velero deployment and a restic daemonset. eg:

[source,bash]
----
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Running   0          2m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          2m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          2m
----

As restic is a daemonset, there should be one pod for each node in your Kubernetes cluster.

== Creating backups
Now that Velero is installed on your cluster, you should see the snapshots option in the navbar of your kots admin console.

image::kots-admin-navbar-snapshot-option.png[Kots Navbar]

If you see this option, you are ready to create your first backup. If you do not see this option, please refer to the
<<troubleshooting-backups-and-restoration, troubleshooting>> section.

=== Option 1 - Create a backup with kots CLI

To create the backup, run:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl kots backup --namespace <your namespace>
----

=== Option 2 - Create a backup with kots admin console

Select *Snapshots* from the navbar. The default selection should be *Full Snapshots*, which is recommended.

image::kots-admin-full-snapshot.png[Kots Navbar]

Select the *Start a snapshot* button.

image::kots-admin-create-backup.png[Kots Create Snapshot]

== Restoring backups

=== Option 1 - Restore a backup from a snapshot

Unlike other restore procedures, which would require you to reinstall server and then restore the data, restoring CircleCI
server from a kots backup does not require you to reinstall server yourself before-hand. To restore from a backup stored
in your S3 compatible storage, you will need to ensure Velero is installed and configured on your Kubernetes cluster, using the instructions above.
Velero must have access to the storage bucket containing the backups.

NOTE: If this is a new cluster or if you need to re-install Velero, the installation should be done with the same credentials
generated above.


=== Option 2 - Restore a backup using the kots CLI

To restore a backup using the kots CLI, run the following get a list of backups:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl kots get backups
----

Using a backup name from the previous command, run the following to start the restore process:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl kots restore --from-backup <backup-instance-id>
----

=== Option 3 - Restore a backup using the kots administration console UI

As with backups, navigate to *Snapshots* in kots admin. Now you should see a list of all your backups, each with a restore icon.
Choose the backup you wish to use and select restore.

image::kots-admin-restore.png[Kots Create Snapshot]

IMPORTANT: The restore will create new load balancers for CircleCI's services. You will need to either update your DNS
records or the hostname configurations in kots admin-console as a result. You may also need to consider updating the
`nomad server endpoint` provided to your nomad clients.

IMPORTANT: If you are using pre-existing nomad clients, you will need to restart them before they will connect to the
nomad-server cluster.

It should take roughly 10-15 mins for CircleCI server to be restored and operational.

== Optional - Scheduling backups with kots

To schedule regular backups, select *Snapshots*, and then *Settings & Schedule* from the kots administration console.

image::kots-admin-scheduled-backup.png[Snapshots Selected]

And here, you can find configurations related to your snapshots, including scheduling.

image::kots-admin-scheduled-snapshots.png[Snapshot Settings]

== Troubleshooting Backups and Restoration

=== Snapshots are not available in kots admin console

If your kots admin console does not display the snapshot option, you may try the following:

* Confirm that your version of kots supports snapshots. At this time, we recommend v1.40.0 or above:

```
$ kubectl kots version
Replicated KOTS 1.40.0
```

* Check that Velero is deployed and running correctly. You may check the Velero logs with the command below.

```
$ kubectl logs deployment/velero --namespace velero
```

You may need to reinstall Velero as a result.

* Confirm that snapshots are available on your license. You may reach out to our Customer Support Team to validate this.

=== Errors occur during backup or restore process

If you experience an error during backup or restore processes, the first place to look would be the Velero logs.
Using the command above, you may find 4XX errors, which would likely be caused by issues with your storage bucket access.

* Confirm that your bucket exists and is in the region you expect.
* Then confirm that the credentials provided to Velero can be used to access the bucket.
* You may need to run the command to install Velero again, this time with updated bucket info.

You may also check the status of pods in the `velero` namespace.

```
$ kubectl get pods --namespace velero
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
restic-5vlww              1/1     Pending   0          10m
restic-94ptv              1/1     Running   0          10m
restic-ch6m9              1/1     Pending   0          10m
restic-mknws              1/1     Running   0          10m
velero-68788b675c-dm2s7   1/1     Running   0          10m
```

In the above example, some restic pods are pending, which means they are waiting for a node to have available CPU or
memory resources. You may need to scale your nodes to accommodate restic in this case.
