jekyll/_cci2/triggers-overview.adoc, before:

---
description: "A guide to the various ways to manage pipeline triggering in CircleCI"
version:
- Cloud
- Server v4.x
- Server v3.x
document-type:
- Conceptual
---
= Triggers overview
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

Pipelines are triggered in response to actions or scheduled to run at specific times and frequencies. Each method of triggering a pipeline is described below.

[#run-a-pipeline-on-commit-to-your-code-repository]
== Trigger a pipeline on push to your code repository

Once a project is hooked up to CircleCI, a pipeline is triggered each time a commit is pushed on a branch that has a `.circleci/config.yml` file included. Once the commit is pushed the running pipeline appears on the pipelines dashboard, which is accessible by selecting **Dashboard** from the left hand sidebar in the CircleCI web app.

.Pipeline running and visible on the dashboard
image::pipelines-dashboard.png[Screenshot showing running pipelines in the CircleCI dashboard.]

[#run-a-pipeline-from-the-circleci-web-app]
== Trigger a pipeline from the CircleCI web app

In the CircleCI web app, when you have a specific branch selected, the **Trigger Pipeline** button becomes enabled:

. Select your branch using the branch filter at the top of the dashboard.
+
image::branch-filter.png[screenshot showing location of branch filter on pipelines dashboard]

. Click **Trigger Pipeline**. At this point you can choose whether you want to specify any pipeline parameters.
+
image::trigger-pipeline-popup.png[screenshot showing the popup you will see when slicking the trigger pipeline button in the web app]

. Click **Trigger Pipeline** again (or **Cancel**) and you will see your new pipeline start.


[#run-a-pipeline-using-the-api]
== Trigger a pipeline using the API

You can trigger a pipeline for a project using the https://circleci.com/api/v2/#operation/triggerPipeline[Trigger a New Pipeline] endpoint.

[#schedule-a-pipeline]
== Schedule a pipeline

Commit message:

add steps for api and scheduled pipelines

jekyll/_cci2/triggers-overview.adoc, after:

---
description: "A guide to the various ways to manage pipeline triggering in CircleCI"
version:
- Cloud
- Server v4.x
- Server v3.x
document-type:
- Conceptual
---
= Triggers overview
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

Pipelines are triggered in response to actions or scheduled to run at specific times and frequencies. Each method of triggering a pipeline is described below.

[#run-a-pipeline-on-commit-to-your-code-repository]
== Trigger a pipeline on push to your code repository

Once a project is hooked up to CircleCI, a pipeline is triggered each time a commit is pushed on a branch that has a `.circleci/config.yml` file included. Once the commit is pushed the running pipeline appears on the pipelines dashboard, which is accessible by selecting **Dashboard** from the left hand sidebar in the CircleCI web app.

.Pipeline running and visible on the dashboard
image::pipelines-dashboard.png[Screenshot showing running pipelines in the CircleCI dashboard.]

[#run-a-pipeline-from-the-circleci-web-app]
== Trigger a pipeline from the CircleCI web app

In the CircleCI web app, when you have a specific branch selected, the **Trigger Pipeline** button becomes enabled:

. Select your branch using the branch filter at the top of the dashboard.
+
image::branch-filter.png[screenshot showing location of branch filter on pipelines dashboard]

. Click **Trigger Pipeline**. At this point you can choose whether you want to specify any pipeline parameters.
+
image::trigger-pipeline-popup.png[screenshot showing the popup you will see when slicking the trigger pipeline button in the web app]

. Click **Trigger Pipeline** again (or **Cancel**) and you will see your new pipeline start.

[#run-a-pipeline-using-the-api]
== Trigger a pipeline using the API

You can trigger a pipeline for a project using the https://circleci.com/api/v2/#operation/triggerPipeline[Trigger a New Pipeline] endpoint. 

. If you have not already, get set up to use API v2 by following the steps in the  <<api-developers-guide#authentication-and-authorization,API Developers Guide>>.

. To trigger a pipeline from the command line using `curl`, copy and paste this sample request and replace the details in `< >` with your details, VCS can be `gh` or `bb`:
+
[source,shell]
----
curl -X POST https://circleci.com/api/v2/project/<VCS>/<your-vcs-org-or-username>/<your-repo-name>/pipeline \
  --header "Circle-Token: $CIRCLE_TOKEN" \
  --header 'content-type: application/json' \
  --data '{"branch":"<your-branch-name>"}'
----

. Head back to the CircleCI web app and see your pipeline running on the dashboard.

TIP: You can also specify pipeline parameters when triggering a pipeline using the API. For full details, see the https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/index.html#operation/triggerPipeline[API v2 Docs].

[#schedule-a-pipeline]
== Schedule a pipeline

Scheduled pipelines allow you to trigger pipelines periodically based on a schedule. To get this set up for a project you can either use the CircleCI web app or use the https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/index.html#operation/createSchedule[API v2]. For full details of both methods see the <<scheduled-pipelines#,Scheduled Pipelines>> docs.

[#next-steps]
== Next steps

Read about orchestrating elements of work within pipelines on the <<workflows#,Using Workflows to Schedule Jobs>> page.
