---
layout: classic-docs
title: Continuous Deployment with Google Container Engine
short-title: Continuous Deployment with GKE
categories: [how-to]
description: "How to continuously deploy your application using Google Container Engine, Google Container Registry, and CircleCI."
sitemap: false
---

## Introduction
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) is a huge, scalable hosting platform that needs little introduction. If you still want one, you can read [this overview]({{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/google-cloud-platform/). In this guide, however, we'll show you how to continuously deploy a Rails application to [Google Container Engine](https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/) (GKE). You can find full example project on GitHub at [docker-hello-google](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google).

For general information on continuous deployment with CircleCI, see the [Introduction to Continuous Deployment]({{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/introduction-to-continuous-deployment/).

### Tools & Concepts Overview

#### GKE
GKE is Google's service to run [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) containers, all powered by Google's open-source software [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) (K8s). This guide uses Kubernetes v1.2 and depends on the following features:

- [Container Clusters](https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/clusters/): GKE offers clusters that simplify a normal K8s cluster. With container clusters, GKE automatically runs a master endpoint and any needed nodes across Google Compute Engine (GCE) virtual machines.

- [Deployments](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/deployments/): We'll be using K8s deployments in this guide. This concept replaces/wraps pods and replication controllers/replica sets. Deployments allow you to manage which pods are running and elegantly upgrade containers.

- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/): `gcloud` is a command-line tool for GCP. This is pre-installed for use on CircleCI.

- [kubectl](http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/): `kubectl` is a command-line tool for K8s. It will be installed via `gcloud`.

#### Google Container Registry (GCR)
For smooth deployment, Docker images must be hosted somewhere. While Docker provides its own free registry called [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), Google provides a registry for image storage while still directly supporting `gcloud`, GKE, and K8s.

## Setup

### Prerequisites
This guide makes the following assumptions:

1. Your project source code is hosted on a CircleCI compatible repository.
2. You already have a GCP project registered. Keep the project name handy.
3. There is an already running cluster on GKE. Keep the cluster name handy.
4. You're familiar with Docker.

### Project Settings on CircleCI

#### Environment Variables
This project uses several environment variables (envar). Most are set in `circle.yml`, but one is set via [Project Settings]( {{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/environment-variables/#setting-environment-variables-for-all-commands-without-adding-them-to-git) for security reasons. This is the
[GCP Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/authentication#service_accounts). This key is generated by Google as a JSON file. Follow the [Authentication with Google Cloud Platform]( {{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/google-auth/) guide to learn how to generate and base64 encode the key. Create a new envar with the name "ACCT_AUTH" and use the base64 encoded JSON key from Google as the value.

#### circle.yml
We'll cover the relevant snippets of the `circle.yml` file here. You can find the complete file [here](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google/blob/master/circle.yml).

```yaml
machine:
  environment:
    PROJECT_NAME: circle-ctl-test
    PROJECT_ID: circle-ctl-test
    CLUSTER_NAME: docker-hello-google-cluster
    CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_ZONE: us-central1-f
```

In the `machine` section we set some envars for use to use with gcloud later. You should replace the values of these three variables for your specific project. **Note:** the project name is actually your project's ID in Google Cloud.

```yaml
dependencies:
  pre:
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud --quiet components update --version 120.0.0
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud --quiet components update --version 120.0.0 kubectl
    - echo $ACCT_AUTH | base64 --decode > ${HOME}//gcloud-service-key.json
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file ${HOME}/gcloud-service-key.json
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud config set project $PROJECT_ID
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud --quiet config set container/cluster $CLUSTER_NAME
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud config set compute/zone ${CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_ZONE}
    - sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud --quiet container clusters get-credentials $CLUSTER_NAME
    # ...
```

In the above YAML snippet, `kubectl` is installed via `gcloud` so the cluster can be changed directly. The JSON key is used to authenticate with GCP, settings are configured, and finally `gcloud` is used to download cluster credentials so `kubectl` can use them during the deployment phase.

To ensure that there are no authentication issues with your service key, consider running the above `gcloud` commands locally.

```yaml
dependencies:
  pre:
    #...
    - docker build -t us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello:$CIRCLE_SHA1 .
    - docker tag us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello:$CIRCLE_SHA1 us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello:latest
```

The Docker image for this example Rails app is build using the Git commit hash
as a tag. A common practice. The second line also applies the 'latest' tag to
the image for convenience.

```
deployment:
  prod:
    branch: master
    commands:
      - ./deploy.sh
```

Finally, if the build passes and the current branch was the master branch, we
run deploy.sh to do the actual deployment work.

#### deploy.sh
Our deployment script for this repository consist of pushing the newly created
Docker image out to the registry, then updating the K8s deployment to use the
new image. The following snippets walk through the process. The full
`deploy.sh` file can be found on
[GitHub](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google/blob/master/deploy.sh).

```
sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud docker -- push us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello
```

Typically when you push a Docker image to a registry, you use the `docker push`
command. While we can still do that here, this `gcloud` command provides a
convenient wrapper that will handle authentication and push the image all at
once. Our new image is now available in GCR for all our GCP infrastructure to
access.

```
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.kube
```

Since we used `gcloud` as root (via sudo), the newly installed `kubectl` binary
doesn't have the right permissions. So we fix it. We're looking to simplify
the use of `gcloud` and `kubectl` in the future.

```
kubectl patch deployment docker-hello-google -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"docker-hello-google","image":"us.gcr.io/circle-ctl-test/hello:'"$CIRCLE_SHA1"'"}]}}}}'

```

This command utilizes the patch subcommand of `kubectl` to make a change to our
running deployment on the fly. This is extremely useful in a CI environment.
Normally you might use `kubectl edit deployment` which will open your
deployment spec file in your default text editor.

This command finds the line that specifies the image to use for our container,
and replaces it with the image tag of the image just built. The K8s deployment
then intelligently upgrades the cluster by shutting down old containers and
starting up-to-date ones.

## Summary & Notes
We've seen how we can use CircleCI to deploy an app, in this examples, a Rails
app, to Google Container Engine while using Google Container Registry to store
the images. An example of a green (passing) build for the example project can
be found [here](https://circleci.com/gh/circleci/docker-hello-google/43){:rel="nofollow"}.

### The Example Project Doesn't Run on GKE
If you were following along with the
[example project on GitHub](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google),
you may have noticed that the Rails app doesn't run on GKE. This is because the
environment variable 'SECRET_KEY_BASE' is needed. In `circle.yml` this is set
for the test to pass. This also needs to be set in your GKE deployment. There
is more than one way to do this. For this project, the deployment spec was
manually edited to set that variable using the command
`kubectl edit deployment`.

### How To Setup The Project and Cluster.
This is best left to GCP and Kubernetes docs:

* Getting Started - <https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/before-you-begin>
* Container Cluster Operations - <https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/clusters/operations>
* Your First Deployment (WordPress example) - <https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/tutorials/hello-wordpress>
